This is Jockel Podcast number 91.
With echo Charles and me, Jockel Willink.
Good evening, echo.
Good evening.
And we are rolling straight into Q&A today.
So questions from the interwebs.
Echo Charles, go.
Go.
Okay, first question.
Jockel, I've just finished about face the book.
Amazing book.
Interested how you modeled your style on Hackworth though.
Hack was a renegade and always bending the rules to break to the breaking point.
But in extreme ownership, you talk about, for example, not pushing back on higher command
when it came to Iraqi troops.
Have listened to podcasts too, but was hoping you could go into it a bit more.
Yeah.
I guess that's a good question.
Hack, he was kind of considered renegade, but also he's also a total company man.
You got to realize that there's that dichotomy.
There's a guy that Hack loved the army.
He loved the army.
He wanted his uniform.
Wood looks super square away.
He followed all the rules and regulations.
And he supported the leadership all the time when the leadership was right.
And that's what makes him a good renegade in my opinion.
And I was very much the same way.
I was all about the Navy.
I was all about the games.
Has a matter of fact Tony, you know what Tony used to say?
It was a little thing we got going in to you, bruiser, that spread around.
But of course it came from Tony first, which was all Navy all the time.
We'd just be joking about, you know, I think I don't know what originally caused
it, but like guys would make fun of me because I would wear like jungle boots or Dan
or boots out to on Liberty with a curve like old jeans.
Yeah, because when you're like that kind of old just raised in the teams, you don't even
know when you're different.
And you're like, oh, I'm going out and I need to wear shoes.
Cool.
Where's my jungle boots?
That's what you end up like.
And you're into it.
You're not like, you think it's good.
You think it's normal.
This is the way things are.
And so I supported the teams.
And hacks supported the army, of course.
But this is the thing, if the leadership was wrong or there was something being passed
down, that was wrong.
And it was a big wrong.
Like if it was a little, I wouldn't be like, oh man, this is crap.
They're making us wear different pairs of shorts now because that would happen.
Like some new commanding officer would come in and change some thing, right?
And sometimes people, oh man, why would we kind of do that with?
It's like, dude, be quiet.
You know, just be quiet.
You know, they're giving you new shorts, where are the new shorts?
You know, oh, they're telling us we can't wear baseball hats anymore.
Cool, don't wear baseball hats.
And some guys would go, man, they're true.
And then it's who cares?
It's like, okay, what I'm wearing on my head, you know?
Like, oh, you want to issue his different ball caps or find whatever.
But then if it was a larger issue, then, or obviously, if it was something that was
like actually wrong, like criminally wrong or morally wrong or something like that, then yeah,
I'd be like, no, we can't do that.
So the reason that I didn't push back on Iraqi troops and working with Iraqi troops when
we got to Ramadi was because as I looked at it, I realized that it was the right thing
to do.
And yes, it was going to be more dangerous.
And yes, it definitely took us out of our comfort zone, but as I explained in extreme
ownership, if we didn't train those people up, if we didn't train the Iraqi soldiers
and take them out and get them fighting and get them squared away on the battlefield,
then Americans would have been doing it forever.
So it was the correct call was to do that.
Now, I've talked about the same thing when they told us, or ratio.
They gave us a ratio of how many Iraqis we had to have for every one Iraqi.
We had to have, I don't know what they're like for real with them.
Or seven, or for every one seal, we had to have seven Iraqi soldiers.
They said that, something like that.
I figured with the numbers.
And I said, that doesn't make sense to us because sometimes we only have 10 guys to go
out.
And there's no way I'm sending only one seal with 10 Iraqi soldiers, not doing it.
Need a corpsman, need a radioman, need a machine gunner, need a leader.
That's what I need.
So, and when I pushed back, because I didn't push back against ball caps and because
I didn't push back against some stupid uniform change, they were like, oh yeah, well,
that actually makes sense, Chaka.
We don't want you to go in the field with only one seal.
So I would clearly push back if it was something that didn't make sense.
Same thing with like the martial arts training that they had us doing in the late 90s and
early 2000s.
It was not good.
And I was told everyone, hey, this is not smart.
This is not good.
This training is dumb.
We need to do other training that's better.
And same thing, you know, things go, oh, like here's another stupid example.
They wouldn't want to issue a platoon.
The radio is you're going to take on deployment because they didn't want you to break
them or whatever.
And say they'd issue not enough radio is for everyone.
It's a now that everyone doesn't know how to operate the radio is.
And you're basically operationally testing the radio is while you're going through
your work up.
So I said, hey, this is garbage.
You everyone radios.
If that's how we operate, that's how we need to train.
So in the training, they wouldn't issue the radio.
Yeah, there was like a time period where we were low on radio.
And they said, we're going to keep these radios for deployment.
And that doesn't make sense.
I got a good idea.
Buy more radios.
So, you know, those were things I'd push back on.
And you were always pushing back on the type of training that was going to happen and
who is going to, how you're going to run the training.
So when something, when it made sense to push back, I pushed back, just like Hackworth
did.
Now Hackworth did it on a massive scale because he eventually pushed back on the way
the ward, Vietnam was being run.
And had I been smart enough.
And the ward didn't take the shift that it took.
And we didn't move towards counter insurgency.
And we didn't make those adjustments that that Karmic Farland implemented in Ramadi.
Maybe I doubt it.
Maybe I would have been smart if say, hey, we're not running this ward right.
We need to do something different and run up the chain of clan.
But at the time, Karmic Farland made great decisions.
He had a great plan, a great strategy.
So I was 100% on board.
But if Hackworth that didn't happen, they were not fighting correctly against the Vietnamese.
And they were taking massive casualties for a hill that two days later, they've given
back.
And so he was saying, what are you doing?
And the other thing, when he took over the hardcore battalion, they were fighting for
months.
And they had literally killed almost no, anyway, I think it was zero.
I think it was actually zero enemy.
And yet they had taken all kinds of casualties themselves.
And so he's saying, wait, this is wrong.
This is wrong.
So I think that's what being a leader is.
You support the stuff.
You support the command.
Yes, of course you support the command.
And it makes sense.
And as long as it makes sense.
And normally it's going to make sense.
You know what I mean?
Normally it's going to make sense.
Not like the admels and the generals are saying, hey, how can we lose this war?
Let's come up with a stupid strategy.
No, they're doing the best they can.
So it's not like it's a regular occurrence.
I mean, like I said, when I was working for Karmic Farland.
He was a smart guy.
He was a brilliant guy that had a great strategy.
Oh, I'm like, okay, awesome.
I'm here to support.
And I'll tell you, when I did, and this is, I think this is important, is that even though
I was kind of a renegade and I was more rebellious when I was a kid.
Obviously, I was a, I was young when I got the seal teams.
Then so you know, we would push all those things.
But I said, oh, we got to do this.
That was me when I was a E4 in the seal teams.
You know, what do we got to do that?
We should just be able to do whatever we want.
You know, we were just stupid.
But as I got older, I realized that you need to, you know, come across as a renegade
quote unquote to come across as a big rebel that doesn't, well, immediately when you
go and push back on something, everyone just dismisses you.
Oh, yeah, Jocco, he's just a lot mouth.
He just, he just pushed back against everything.
He doesn't what he's want to do everything his way.
No, you want them to say, oh, wow, hold on a second.
If Jocco is pushing back against this, then this, this must be something wrong here.
Because he doesn't push back against stuff.
He tells the line all the time.
So we should listen to him.
That's what you want to build.
That's what I did my best to build.
And that's how I think it would be comparable to the way Hack worth led and the way that I
tried to.
Obviously, I know Hack worth, but I stole as much as I could from him.
And the weird thing is I'll tell you this.
I always say I stole from him, but it wasn't like I was sitting there reading the
book and going, I'm going to do what he did here.
I think it was just absorbed.
And even the naming of Task Unit Bruser, like when I did it, I wasn't thinking this
is what Hack worth did.
But it was real obvious that that's where I got it from.
I didn't think, I'm going to rename this and we're going to turn this thing around.
And based on, or we're not turning around, but we're going to build this based on, no,
I was like, you know, we're not going to be task unit Bravo because that sounds lame.
We're going to be task unit Bruser because that sounds awesome.
And then later, you know, that's exactly what Hack worth did.
Obviously stole it from him.
So appreciate it, Hack.
But that's what I'd say.
Be a renegade, but that should be in the background.
That should be in the background.
In the front of your mind should be, hey, I'm a supporter.
Of what's happening.
Hmm.
Kind of like the willingness to be a renegade.
If you have to.
Yeah, yeah.
And believe me, I've known all kinds of good seals that were too renegade.
Yeah, that's just like I'm a renegade.
Yeah, they're just straight up, hey, I'm a renegade.
And you know, that just the only guys that could get away with that were guys that were
so, ultimately, operationally squared away.
That people go, yeah, you know, he's kind of a maniac, but he's really really good.
Really tacked.
We sound like all that and they could, they make that happen.
Now, as you get more and more senior, homey don't play like that.
Yeah, if there's certain point, it's done and you've got to get, you've got to play the
game.
That's what you've got to do.
As you get more senior, you've got to play the game.
And from like your subordinates viewpoint, if they looked at me and go, oh,
Joc was just playing the game.
He's just doing, you guess I am.
Yes, I am.
Because this way gives me more ability to control everything that's going to impact
you people that work for me.
So yes, I'm going to play the game so you don't have to.
You're welcome.
So yeah, check.
Yeah, man.
Makes sense.
Next question.
BJJ, due to during your time in Iraq.
If you like, please paint me a picture.
How to imagine a BJJ class from you as an active soldier.
Did you have a key?
Maths.
And how would it differ from a quote unquote normal class?
So yeah, I always brought maths with me starting with 1998.
I think it's when I started bringing maths with me.
How do you bring maths?
Do you just be like, hey, in military transport, you build something called a pallet.
So you get a big pallet and they're like eight feet by eight feet.
Yeah, pretty big.
You put stack all kinds of stuff on them.
And you know, you got your weapons.
Just got whatever you like.
You got your engines.
You got your motors.
You got your boats, your zodiac boats.
You got paddles.
You got all this.
I mean, all the equipment.
Everyone's personal gears on there.
They're up gear.
They're body armor.
It's all in these big pallets.
And when you go into a planet, you'll have eight pallets, eight of these giant pallets.
And so on some of those pallets, there would be maths.
So who is it up to though?
You're talking about weapons and zodiacs and stuff.
And then that's like who's it up to?
Well, whoever's in charge.
Which we're talking about.
So that it made it real easy.
And even if it wasn't me, I mean, everybody, you know, if people are bringing something
to help everyone get better, you know, people are, yeah, that's cool.
So is it like an approval process?
No, man.
You get to like this is what other guys bring in all kinds of crazy things.
I remember guys, you know, you guys bring surfboards.
I mean, they pack their surfboards on pallets.
They pack weights and squat racks.
And anything that you want, you know, if you're going on a six month deployment to remote
location, yeah, you're going to, you're going to load out of squat rack at a bunch of
bump replits.
And if that remote location has waves, you're packing surfboards.
If it has, if it has, you know, rock climbing, you're going to pack rock climbing gear.
Yeah.
That's, I'm telling you, this is one of the things that it's really hard to, the seal
teams.
It's really hard to have that.
I think we, I think the weenessial teams have that better than most people is just this
autonomy to kind of make things happen and do kind of cool stuff.
Yeah.
And I'm not saying no, no one ever gets to do that, but you know, I don't think a regular
army unit or regular Marine Corps unit would be putting, you know, seven surfboards on their
payers.
So where's the limit though?
Like, so what, can I let's say we're going, can I get a, like a TV?
Can I get a TV?
Oh, you got a TV's.
Big screen.
Yeah.
It just, it also depends on where you're deploying what you're doing, what the mission
is, because, you know, my first time to Iraq, we didn't have much of any of the stuff.
Obviously, right?
We just had our opgier basically.
And, but the second time, the second time I went to Iraq, we brought more, but we actually
had to weld the squat rack.
It's pretty awesome.
There's a Marine, that there's a great Marine that was with us and he ran, he manned
the radios.
And he was just an awesome guy.
And he was, he was a Marine, but there was Marines across the river.
And so he was supposed to keep continuity.
And he got assigned to us anyways.
Awesome guy.
And he knew how to weld.
He, from a farm up in Montana or something.
So he knew how to weld.
And he had the gear and we didn't have a squat rack.
And so our C-B's, because there's a bunch of C-B's with us too.
Oh, yeah.
They got, they were able to, like, just come up with stuff.
They, they make anything happen.
My, my head, C-B was just, could, C-B, that's C-B's build things.
And they also acquire things.
Let me see.
It's a combat engineer battalion.
It's a construction battalion.
That's what it is.
So it's C-B for short, but it's the C-B's.
And, so yeah, they, they build things.
And they also are very good at acquiring things.
You know, things just show up at your, at your base.
And my guys were awesome at acquiring things.
And we didn't have a squat rack, which is crazy to me to have no squat rack, right?
Why, why don't you have a squat rack?
So yeah, that's what we're thinking of.
This, this Marine weld at a squat rack.
Now, here's the interesting part.
The squat rack, he was, he was tall.
He was like, maybe six, four, six, five.
Maybe not that tall.
He's a main guy.
The Marine welder.
So on this squat rack, there was, you know, there's a adjustable,
to put the bar on.
Well, this didn't have adjustable things.
It just had two hooks.
And there was one hook at his height.
Or one set of hooks at his height.
And one set of hooks at my height.
I've never just had to figure it out from there.
So yeah.
Yeah.
But yeah.
So yeah, you could bring, you could bring that if you wanted to.
And so, so yes, we brought mats.
I brought mats on that deployment.
And both actually, both my deployments to Iraq brought mats.
And then, one of the class, like, well, generally you're trained with people that don't
know anything.
And I want to train with them and to work up.
So they're starting to learn and they're like, you know, low level white belts or middle
level white belts or even high level white belts.
I don't know if I think we had one blue belt on the even one of my deployments.
And the good thing is their team guys, their athletic, their strong, their good shape.
They want to learn.
So they learn fast, their tough.
They're, like I said, strong and athletic.
So you're going to get good roles.
Yeah.
I mean, what the more you teach them, the better the roles get.
We're talking about gear, no gear.
We never, I never traveled with a gear for the military.
I don't think.
And so, well, what I started wearing almost all time was cami pants.
And a t-shirt.
And what's cool is I did that when I, as soon as I started to get to our training with
other seals that were in cami pants and a t-shirt.
Because it didn't make sense to wear like a cami top.
And so what's cool is without even knowing it, when no one was training no
ghee, I was actually training no ghee because I did, was just training with guys with t-shirts
on.
Not even wearing pants, but anyway, so yeah, that's where we'd wear cami pants and a
t-shirt.
And occasionally put on a hop gear occasionally, but, but not very often.
The other thing you got to watch out for with my former organization in the Seal teams
is there's guys that would go nuts, like they do on a tap because you get major egos.
And so guys could occasionally go psycho.
Sometimes when I'd pit certain people against each other, sometimes I'd have to basically
officiate slash BSA, if the officer to make sure that no one actually got killed because
they'd be trying to kill each other and no one wants to tap.
And you have to say, hey man, you can't, you're about to, your arms about to get broken.
Stop.
So you had to do some of that.
And I'm, I am a bit of an instigator.
Yeah.
I mean, you see it now, I still do it on the mats today.
You know what I mean, if there's two guys that are going hard against each other, but
maybe they're not going super hard.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
It's really easy to escalate that.
Yeah.
Yeah, I know.
And so I would escalate matches between guys as well.
And then you know how to, I just roll with everyone.
So yeah, with the world of the class, be like, we teach the moves just like a drag
energy to two class, teach the moves, go over some stuff, and then roll.
And that's it.
Pretty simple.
Good times.
Yeah, I found that if you can do little drills with yourself, if you're a high level guy,
and you're going with the white belt, especially if they're athletic, what you do is,
you know how like when you roll with a guy who's maybe one level, who'll give or take
from you, you, or let's say they're one level or you'll kind of slowly put yourself into
batter or worse situations.
You won't go all out or nothing like it.
Yeah.
But this is kind of counterintuitive.
If you go with like a beginner beginner, but they're athletic, what you do is you
try to, you think of a finish or a position.
Yeah, as fast as you possibly can.
Oh.
So if you're like, okay, I'm going to start in the box.
So you're going to force something.
No, no, well, depends on what you're going to do.
You're going to force it.
Yeah.
But if you're going to force an arm lock, if you say I'm going to finish this with an arm
lock, you're going to have to force him into that position.
Somewhat.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
I mean, you can set it up, sure.
Yeah, exactly.
That's what that's really the drill is you got to set it up, given what he does.
And he could be retreating the whole time.
Sure, it's going to take longer.
It's just, that's just how it should you do.
But that's the drill in your head, rather than, you know, let's say an intuitive method
to roll with a white belt is let's just go light.
Let's see what he does.
Let him get a good position on you and then a workout of it.
But no, don't do that.
Be like, okay, I'm going to treat this person like a person that I have to in real life
subdue with and you choose whatever way.
That's a good game to play.
Actually, that is a good game to play.
And then you get real good at that.
Like, going from one thing and then it's also I don't play that game.
Very often, I don't know what, there's something that snaps in my head sometimes when I'm like,
okay, I'm going to just smash this person.
But you know, sometimes I'll be watching the clock and when there's 40 seconds left,
I'll be like, I'm really trying to submit this due to the next 40 seconds.
Or this is when I'm going against someone that's good.
You know what I mean?
I honestly, I do that with you sometimes, where you can feel me chilling and I'm all
of some of them like, oh wait, there's 30 seconds left and I have to go super hard to
try and get you and sometimes I don't get myself enough time.
That's the thing that I have to learn to get better.
And yeah, me saying that, uh, agree, like, I don't do that in training.
Because what I firmly, my lazy instinct is I always go just enough better than the
person I'm going against to maintain and eventually finish.
See, and that's good because you give the other guy good training.
Yeah.
And that's kind of the point with not, you don't want, if you go in regular Jesus
class and you're like, you know, upper belt mean like purple brown black belt and you
go against a white belt, you can pair it up with a white belt.
I'm not saying necessarily to do that all the time because it's kind of, you kind of,
it's a relationship you have with your training partners.
So if I'm like, okay, every white belt I go against or any beginner, I'm just going
to go as hard again.
It's like, bro, what are you doing to the guy?
Sure.
Good.
That's why that's why for what you're saying for blue belts to do that is not good.
For blue, that's why belts they don't have the skill yet.
Yeah.
That's true too.
It should be like purple, brown belt black belt.
Yeah.
That's going to be like, okay, I'm going to test my efficiency on making this happen
really quickly.
Yeah.
Blue belt against a athletic white belt is going to be World War 7.
That's true.
And there's injuries that are waiting to happen.
Yeah.
There's a purple belt generally is not going to get it injured.
Not going to generally injure someone from being in a bad position.
Blue belt white belt.
Maybe it could be.
Yeah.
It's a bad scenario.
And so really the point in doing that is like in a scenario like your situation where you
don't have anyone to train with except for beginners that are all athletic and hungry.
So it's like, okay, what do I do?
You know what's cool?
I would come home from deployment better at GJ2 than when I left.
For sure.
That happened on every deployment.
When I came home, I was better at GJ2 than when I left.
But not only better than I was, but I was in keeping with the standards of the guys
I was training with.
Yeah.
So, you know, I'm rolling with Dean before I leave.
And I come back and I am now doing better than I was against Dean before I left.
He's been here training the whole time.
So that says to me, that is an effective way to train.
You know, you just, you just, and that's why there's really no excuse to lie.
People ask, you know, what should I do?
I live four hours away from the closest gym and get some friends, put some mats on the
ground, watch YouTube, and start training with each other.
And occasionally when you get the chance, go somewhere to a school once a month, once
every two weeks.
Good morning.
Yeah.
And I think in your situation is kind of a, not necessarily unique, but kind of a specific
type of situation where you have all the fundamentals essentially down.
So, you know, like habitual stuff that you just automatically do with certain techniques,
which is the correct technique, you know.
So, you, I think that you'll benefit more in that way, where you can train with beginners
and train so when you get to know.
But I'm talking about when I was a blue belt myself.
I still got a lot better when I would be on deployment.
Yeah.
And when I was a purple belt when I was a brown belt, you know.
Still still, it's just like a little just a smaller version of that idea where if you're
beginner and you're like, okay, I've never taken you to the start on YouTube or whatever,
I don't think you can benefit those situations.
Oh, no, you can definitely benefit from them.
Not as much.
You can't, yeah, you can definitely not as much, but you can benefit.
You can definitely benefit.
Yeah.
It's better.
It's a thousand times better than not doing anything and not training.
Oh, yeah.
And if you got one person that has that gift of being able to like understand what's
happening, maybe got a wrestler in there, but that's going to help you so much.
Maybe you got someone that did judo, maybe that's going to help you so much.
But even if you know, you just start looking at it and saying, okay, what's happening
in this, what's happening?
Like, okay, try that on Mark on me and you get some of those good YouTube videos that
really break things down well.
Yeah.
You can learn a lot.
I think you can, because I didn't have to learn that way, luckily.
Yeah, luckily you got to train with the best guys in the whole entire world.
So, you know, hey, you know, teach their own.
Yeah, actually, yeah, actually, had your Gracie who's, you know, we not even arguably,
talk three all-time ever.
He and he was actually telling me, he's like, I don't have like a team of world
class guys to train with.
He's like sometimes I train with Brailleil sometimes.
Because he's an English.
Yeah, so he has like, he's like, I only train with my students and who are good and
they give off some training, but they're not, I don't have world class training partners.
Like, my opponents do kind of thing.
Yeah.
And there was always a good job.
That was kind of amazing.
Yeah.
So man, to kind of teach their own, but all these things, yeah, can be beneficial even
even if they don't necessarily seem like it.
Yeah.
And you know what I think actually, this is leading to, it's like, you get what you
make out of it.
Yeah.
Exactly.
And there's people in the UFC that have done the same thing that came from some random
camp and they're training hard and they go and win.
The connoomer Grecker.
He didn't come from, he didn't come from Greg Jackson.
Yeah.
He didn't come from American top team.
He came from a, you know, their school with, with Kevin on.
And obviously doing something right.
But same thing, he didn't have the highest level guys to train against.
He trained, I'm not saying slagging off their training partners, but it's not, it wasn't
a known camp when he came around.
He's, so he's a guy like that.
Max all the way.
He's out, how are you?
Right?
He's training hard.
He's coming out here winning the UFC championship based on, you know, his training
partners.
So I think guys that that actually understand what they need to do, they do it, they
get it done.
They don't make any excuses.
Yeah.
You have a hand to the day.
That's it.
Check.
Next question.
With life decisions is it better to be decisive and take actions to move
forward, even if sometimes those decisions are wrong, as opposed to being paralyzed by
indecision and fear, thus getting maneuvered on by life.
I ask this because I struggle with life decisions and have trouble committing to one path
duty, eclectic interests.
After listening to your podcast, I'm thinking it's better to be aggressive and maneuver
on the battlefield of life as long as I'm prepared to adapt rather than sitting around
and letting circumstances dictate my actions.
Well, it sounds like he kind of answered his own question there.
Which is good.
Yes.
It is better to be aggressive.
It's better to be decisive.
This does not mean burning bridges.
And I think we've talked about this before.
It doesn't mean that you just say, I'm quitting my job right now because I'm going to
start a new life as a whatever your new job is going to be.
I'm going to start a business selling widgets.
And I'm just going to go all in because I'm committed.
Sure.
Well, you know, how long has it takes to produce those widgets?
And so there's a lot of issues with that.
You know, there's a way though to mitigate risk on your decisions.
And actually at the at the camp, we were in up in Maine, there's a lot of guys that were
you know, listening to the podcast.
And one of them really good, really good guy.
He was talking to me about his business.
And the business, which I'm not going to go any details, but he's basically saying, look,
I got this business. It's going well. I want it to do better.
And I'm kind of weighing this decision between bringing on.
He says, I want to bring on like six people to really help expand and grow and all that stuff.
He said, but if I do that, and we have a couple rough, you know, if we hit some bad luck,
I might be upside down and not be able to handle it.
And what I really am scared of is like, that's not just me, but it's now it's my family.
I got a wife and I got kids. And now I'm hedging the comfort and safety of my family.
So I don't know what to do. And I said, OK, well, do you have to go all in?
Right? Do you have to turn around tomorrow and go, you know what?
We're going all in. I'm going to hire these six people. We're going to expand and hopefully
everything goes right. We'll do really well. You don't have to do that.
You don't have to put that much on the table.
Instead, I said, well, how many people do you actually really need right now?
And he said, probably one or two. And I was like, OK, why don't you bring on one?
And start to see where that goes and be prepared to look for another person to bring on too.
And then as those two people work out and you're starting to fill their labor every day and
they have work to do because you're expanding the cool, bring on three. And guess what?
If you hit a hiccup and things start going sideways for whatever reason, that's cool.
You don't have those additional four people or three people on board that you're paying
payroll to every month, which is normally what kills businesses or one of the common things that
kills businesses. So it's the same. So that's a good example. Right? And he was, he thought to himself
and he loved to me and said, absolutely, I'm going to go do that. And so he's probably back at his
job right now, running his business and probably hiring a person to start expanding. Not hiring six
people and putting all of his chips on the table where it's a cool gamble, let's say the
percentage of winning, winning is 70%, you're like, yeah, I'm just going to do it. There's a 30%
chance you'll lose and now your family has no house and no food. So that's not what we want to do.
So why not just put some of your chips on the table and you can still win and make a little bit.
You still, you still improve your position. So we got to do that with life too. Like I said,
you don't quit your job to start building widgets when you don't know what you're doing.
You got to, why not just build the widgets in your spare time? Yeah, see what I don't.
Yeah, start putting those things on the internet, start seeing how they sell, start getting a little
income from them, let them grow and then finally when you feel like the balance start to tip,
maybe they'll be a last minute jump where you'd be like, okay, now I'm going to go for it.
But what you're committing to is something solid, something tangible and something that's making money.
Right? We're not jumping in and committing to something that's an unknown. We're going to commit
something to something that's known and I think it's important to note that that right there
is not a lack of commitment. And this is, yeah, here these like, you know, people on the interwebs,
they'll be like, you know, why you have a made a get? Because you have a committed 100%.
That's why you, if you want to do it, you got to commit with everything you've got. Well, and so
what people think is, okay, well, I'm just going to quit my job because I'm going to go for a
commit and then I'll be successful because this guy over here told me, if I committed, I'd be successful. It's actually not true.
You can be a thousand percent committed to something and you can still fail. I got bad news for you. That's the
reality. You know, that's the reality of, do you think that people at Blackberry weren't committed to their game? You know what I mean?
You know, but what happened to Blackberry? It's, they were, they were committed, but they made some bad
decisions. The guess what? Now, Blackberry is not really in the game anymore. Well, they I think they changed games. I'm not 100% sure.
But people think that that because you didn't quit your job and go all in and put all your chips on the
table that you're not committed and I actually don't want to agree with that. And I'll get, here's my example.
If, okay, I think that commitment is actually harder to do when it's a long term
commitment that you're going, okay, you know what? I'm going to, I'm going to stay at my job, but I'm going to work three hours a day on this other thing.
I'm going to be manufacturing, maybe making my widgets three hours a day when I get home at 10 o'clock at night.
I'm going to go until one o'clock in the morning, making my widgets. That's commitment.
It's actually smart commitment. It actually, in some ways, takes more commitment to do that than it does just to quit your job and say, I'm all in.
Because now you're holding your balancing on these different things. You're carrying your shouldering more of a burden. So that actually takes more commitment.
The problem is that people, they, they get weak and after the fourth night of making widgets at 10 o'clock at night, they go, yeah, I am not.
I'm good. It's cool. I have a job. I have a job. Yeah. And so that's weak. You know, an example, be, what if you could get in
excellent physical condition in three hours, but it was just like the hardest three hours
that you could imagine. Think about that. And your body would transform from whatever crap condition you're in right now into
a specimen and it's going to take three hours of just hell. How many more people would be an amazing condition?
I think a ton more because committing for three hours to something, even there was going to be super bad. People would be able to do it.
What takes more commitment and the reason everyone's not walking around like a perfect specimen is because it doesn't take three hours.
It doesn't take three weeks. It doesn't take three months. It takes a daily grind that goes on for years that you have to hold the line on on the way you eat, on the way you exercise, on your life.
And that takes real commitment. Yes. So it isn't a lack of commitment. It's planning.
It isn't a lack of commitment. It is mitigating risk. And don't confuse again. I think that the person that commits to something and still maintains this other income stream.
For example, that person is at least as committed. If not more committed, then the person says, you know what, screw it. I'm going all in over here. I'm forgetting about, you know, quitting my job.
But that's not a smart move. And it takes more. That's actually an easier way. That's my point. It's easier in many ways to go, you know what? I'm quitting this day job. I'm quitting my nine to five.
I'm sick of that cubicle. I'm sick of that construction site. I'm just going all in over here. That is an easier move that takes less commitment.
Then saying I'm going to shoulder the burden of working 15, 18, 20 hours a day for the next two years until I can get this thing stood up enough to where I can execute it.
Yeah. Yes. It's almost like people are conflating the commitment. You know, it's like that.
Almost people want to want to do a big show of commitment by quitting their job. But it's more of just a show of commitment.
It's even your commitment or you're not kind of thing. Yeah. And then so a lot of times with these big shows of commitment comes just an immense amount of stupidity.
You know, yeah. Yeah. When mean while you can either commit or don't commit, you know, yeah, sure. If you don't quit your job and you make widgets.
And you don't commit sure. It's like, all right, you got you can facilitate your non-commitment. Yeah. Yeah, I dig your real job. You're nine to five jobs in the neighborhood to you not committing. Yeah.
Fully. Yeah. But by no means is that, you know, proof. Yeah. Yeah. And it's important to note that don't confuse.
And this is another mistake. So people make mistakes on either ends of the spectrum. The other one is don't confuse planning and mitigating risk
with not taking action because that can happen too. You have to make things happen every single day. That's what you have to do.
If you don't take action, if you don't move, which is what this guy's asking about, then yeah, you're paralyzed and you're never going to get anywhere.
But all you have to do is chip away if that thing. You got to make a little bit of movement every day. Yeah. You want to write a book.
And this is something I'm familiar with now because I'm writing books and writing another book right now. Yeah. And you know what I got to do.
I got to chip away if that thing every day. Every day. Yeah. Every day.
There's a comment. Thousands of words a day. 45 minutes. Maybe an hour. That's what it takes. And guess what? If I can't get that hour for whatever reason, guess what I'm going to get.
To 20 minutes. I'm going to get 30 minutes. I'm going to get something to get in the room to do work because I'm going to be close to my golden. I was.
Yeah. That's the way it is. Yeah, man. And I think you got to see that live. Didn't you? Yes. You know, honor like it was my honor.
That's, but that's where it happens. Where else is it going to happen? Right? Yeah. We were flying back from Maine.
I was, you know, echo's cruising good. Yeah. I think I fell asleep a couple times. Yeah. Yeah. You were kind of in it.
I was hammering. I was doing what I have to do. Because if I don't do it then, when is that when I'm going to get that hour?
That was I was four hours I had right there flight technically five. Yeah. Couldn't get my computer out for the first little bit.
Oh, yeah. There. Let you. So whatever. Oh, good. Yeah. I was kind of at times. Let's peek you know if you're shoulder like reading. Oh, it's not going right.
You know, we're here. Then I see. Oh, what was it? I saw the name Kenny Williams in in there. Oh, no. Oh, no.
I know a jockel's right in there. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Oh, too. This good man. Be composed.
Yeah. I think that all that sounds like kind of obvious, you know, when you're saying it. I'm like, yeah. Okay. Yeah. Yeah.
Got it or you know, or at least the part where it's like it's a daily thing. Like you've got to have a
progress, you know, like you've got to take that step, you know, do it.
Sounds obvious, but man how many times did I know this like my friends and
whatever, you go on, I don't know, online or whatever and you see people complaining in the about, you know,
stuff never happens for me, you know, FML, you know, FML means stuff never happens to you. That's right.
And stuff never happens for you. That's right. Yeah. That is life. Yeah. It doesn't happen for you in life. Yeah.
You got to go and make it. I've explained to my kids. You want to make money. You have to take that
money from someone else. You have to take it from them. People are just going to walk up and give you money.
Yeah. Right. That doesn't happen. That's never happened to me in my life.
Known as ever walked up and given me money. Yeah. You got to take that.
But they got to give it to you. They got to make them. You got to take it from them. Yeah.
They want that money, too. So what are you going to give them? That's going to make allow you to take it from them.
Yeah. That. So yeah. Guess what? Nothing's nothing happens for you. That's right. Nothing does happen for you.
You have to make it happen. Yeah. That's the default aggressive mindset that you are going to make things happen.
Not going to sit around and wait for things to happen. It's not going to happen.
Yeah. It's not going to happen. Oh, well, guess what? I read a story about this such and such a person.
And they just walked into this agency and they thought they looked did a really good job.
And now their famous is okay. That's great. Basher life on that percentage chance of happening.
It's not happening. Yeah. I actually look at that and just think the chance of anything like that
happening to me are zero. Nothing good is going to happen to me like that.
That I'm just going to get a good deal like that. It's not happening. Zero. Yeah.
So if you're going to get it, you're going to have to make it happen. Yeah. Next question.
Yes, that should be the red flag right there then.
Right. Basically for someone who's like, no, you know, when am I going to get my big break or
or nothing happens for me kind of thing. That should be the red flag right.
One is like, yeah, it seems more of a journey you're talking about the fact that you're not
that things aren't coming to you. Yeah. Yeah. That should be a real big red flag.
Nothing is going to come to you. Not happening. Not happening. You got to go and make things happen.
And once you have that attitude, I'll tell you what it's a game changer. Yeah.
It's a game changer. Once you realize that that book that's so good that's in your head,
it's not going to write itself. Yeah. Once you realize that widget that you have this plan for,
isn't going to build itself, then you'll realize like, okay, I'm going to have to make these things
happen. Yeah. And even then, guess what? You can make a widget that no one wants to buy. And you can
write a book that no one wants to, no one wants to read. And if you're not okay with that,
which is another thing that happens. People say, well, you know, no one will like it.
Okay. Well, if that's what you think, well, then don't even write it unless you want to write it for yourself.
Then write it for yourself. And cool. Be proud. Be stoked. Be happy. Yeah. Let's
interesting. Let's say a book book, right? For example. It, this kind of reminds me of where,
you know, how let's say, I don't know me. I'm a, let's say, oh, I'm a pretty good writer. In fact,
I even wrote a book before, whatever. And then my friend on Instagram face, whatever,
someone, my neighbor, whatever. They write a book and they, they release it. And then they write another one.
And let's say it's not even really that good, but it's out there. They're like, look at my new
book and, you know, they got people support, oh, that's awesome. You wrote a book. And I mean,
why I'm like, kind of saw our grapes a little bit. I'm like, I'm a better writer than that person.
Meanwhile, I didn't write anymore book. You know, I'm over here. Or you will want, yeah.
Yeah, I wrote back in the day, long time ago, you know. But you know, I'm saying, I'm in that arena,
you know, and I'm kind of in my mind hating on this. Well, they're seeing, there's people that hate
on them that never even wrote a book in the first place. Yeah. And then I'm a better writer. I'm a better
film guy. I'm a better writer. I'm a better writer. I'm a better writer. One effort. And all kinds of people
doing that. All kinds of people that that will just be saying, I, you know, I, I, I was a better,
whatever, fighter, GJ2 player, carpenter, whatever, you name it. Yeah. Meanwhile, taking no action,
software engineer, I could have done that. Why didn't you? Yeah. You're that great. I'll say why,
because you weren't committed. And the commitment that we're talking about is at night,
yeah, night. That's what times are early early in the morning or in the middle of the day,
whatever. You know, it, how you said like, you're, you're not doing these enormous shows of
commitment, like either you're committed or you're not. And if you're committed, it's going to show
itself like your action, you know, a lot of people again back to the guy who's like hating on
his neighbor doing quote unquote mediocre work. Like, oh, that's John, that's not that good.
You know what it, you know what it, you know what, it's just maybe think of this. Sometimes you'd meet a guy
that was say, I'm going to seal training. And, and they'd kind of be brag about it. And you could
see in their eyes that that right there was good enough for them. Just tell you like, I'm going to
seal, seal team training. Yeah. You know, no one calls us, he'll team training, but that's the kind of
person because they just want to, and you, I, I, I, here guy, you know, guys saying that, yeah, I'm going to seal training.
The guys that generally have a better chance are guys that, you know, you say, oh, what are you doing in the
Navy? And they say, oh, you know, I'm, you know, just got done with a school and I'm starting,
hoping to go to seal training. You know, they, they have to pry it out of them. Right. Yeah.
That guy's a better chance. The guy that's already bragging, basically indirectly bragging,
because he's implying that he's going to make it. Those guys, going to have a little bit more
rough on now. This doesn't mean they're not, this doesn't mean don't be confident. But that's
what I'm saying is some people that are like, I'm going for it. They're happy with just saying,
I'm committed at quit my job and this is what I do. They're happy to let everyone know that.
But what they're not happy to do is grind. That's what they're not happy to do. And that's where
that's where you, that's where you make your money, right? Or where you make your goods or where you
become successful? Yeah, there is, oh, what is it? It's, it's, it doesn't matter, but I'm
listening to somebody and they were talking about like commit, like people have goals. I want to be a
singer or whatever, want to be a CEO. That's money. I want to be a CEO.
Oh, you can form up an LLC today and you can become the CEO. Exactly right. So that's kind of
your problem. That's part of the point right there. It's like, okay, you want to be a CEO because
you see all this cool stuff on wherever about being a CEO, but really what you're pursuing isn't
necessarily being the, it is, but what you're pursuing, where you're going to end up and where you're
going to find success as a CEO. If you're pursuing the day to day of being a CEO, it's like,
oh, I said this before and it's, on the surface it's lame, but it's actually really accurate.
Like, if you want to be a gangster, you have to do gangster stuff every day. It's not just like
posing with your guns. It's like, you got to kind of, you got to put in that work kind of thing.
You know, so if you're going to be, like, you can't just be Jocco and start a podcast and just
in, and, you know, put out a book and that's it and start collecting money. It's not like that.
You got, you got to go through, you know, however old you are, there's other steps involved.
Yes, exactly right. This day for that late for now, you used to joke about, you know, because
when we started Ashalan front obviously, which is me and him, and we'd see some other guy
out there and you'd be like CEO of something and we'd be saying, well, like as a CEO and you
look at their company and the company has them, but only one person or three people.
Right. It brought you. That's the part of it. Yeah. On the CEO. I'm the CEO of Jocco podcast.
Yeah. You know, it's just you and me. There's no CEO going on here. Yeah.
Yeah. We're cruising too hard. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. That deal. You got to focus on the right
things as opposed to the wrong thing. Check. Next question. Jocco.
I coach high school football, which I do with the star athlete who segregates himself and won't
participate in hard drills or won't participate hard in drills. Yeah. Now this one I actually
thankfully remembered that I said I would do this because when I got this, this is a Twitter question.
And I responded to this Twitter question in one word. So, you know, he says, I got this guy
star athlete who won't participate in drills. What should I do with him? I responded in one word. Bench.
I thought that. So, so of course, you know, then people start saying, well, you know,
and I was like, yeah, I know we're on Twitter, right? We're on Twitter. There's more to it.
Then what's happening? I just answered 798 questions. I just was 799. So,
not going to go into full detail. But then as people were kind of chiming, you know, it's like, okay,
I'll all answer this on the podcast. So, we can go into it a little bit more. Because yes,
your coach, your leader. And obviously, I talk about this all the time.
Leadership is a nuanced thing. It takes balance. It takes maneuvering. It takes chess playing.
It takes mental jiu-jitsu. It takes all those things, right? So, the obvious answer of just like Bench.
That's my meat head answer. And fundamentally, we'll get to it. But, and fundamentally, that may be
the result. But let's dive into it a little bit. Who's the kid? What's his deal? What's his background?
What's his attitude? Where's he coming from? What's his family like life? What's his family life like?
What is what's his past performance? What's his record? What year is he in school? I mean,
there's all kinds of things we need to know. Right? So, now once we've sort of figured out what he
like. Now that any one of those things, any one of those variables is going to change our course of
action a little bit. Because being a leader doesn't mean you get to follow cookie cutter results or
of cookie cutter solutions to things, right? You're dealing with human beings. And every single human
being is different. And every single human being has a little craziness to them. That you cannot
predict. So we're dealing with a kid. Guess what? A 16 year old boy? That kid is even more unpredictable.
And even more crazy for him. Right? Because he's got testosterone flowing through his system. He's
chasing girls. He's he's just going crazy. He's not secure with himself yet. He's got zits on his face.
He's, you know, he's got things going on. He's got issues. Yeah. And so this kid's crazy. We're trying
to deal with him. Now, most kids can get, you know, they get through that and they're still
participating with the team. This kid's not. So, one of the first things I always say this. You
got somebody that's not stepping up in the leadership position or they're not wanting to put him in charge
of it. You know, you say, hey, echo. I want you to run this drill. I think the way I'm watching
you perform on the field, I think you could really lead this drill. Well, I want you to lead this drill
and show these guys what's up. Right? So you know what I mean? Yeah. I think you got a little
fired up face on your lips. Just there. Yeah. So that might take his attitude. And now instead of
me saying, hey, echo, you got to do this drill like everyone else. I already know that you don't
want to do that. So I'm elevating you a little bit. Yeah. And you're ego a little push, a little massage
and maybe you feel good about that now. And I say, hey, you know, you can run this drill faster
than anyone else. I want you to lead it. I want you to show them how to do it. I want you to make
our team better. Boom. Oh, so I'm going to get a little fired up. So that's that's one solution type.
Right? I'm just going to kind of a broad solution type. So another solution type is is, and this
is really easy. Really easy is when you're talking to someone that you want to improve their
performance, you don't go to them and say, hey, you need to get better. Because you're just right
now, you're letting the whole team down. And you're just, you think you're so good. You think
you're so good that you don't need to coach, you don't need to run drills with the team. You need to
run drills with the team. Now you're out of to do what are you talking about. So instead of saying that,
again, I'm going to ego you up a little bit and be say, hey, man, I'm going to talk to you. I
gotta talk to you because I see so much potential with you with your game. I see your athletic
ability. And I see the way that the other guys on the team look at you. You might not sense it. They
look up to you. Your leader, whether you want to be a leader or not. And the potential that you
have in his as an athlete is not going to come to fruition unless you at least get some of your
potential as a leader in line. So the reason I want you to run these drills isn't to make you better.
I already know you're good. I already know you're good at the drills. The reason I want you to run
these drills, I want you to be even better. I want you to reach your potential. And by the way,
you helping run these drills is going to make the team better. And the better the team does,
the better you're going to do. The more scouts we're going to hear, look at you. So there's that.
And obviously, I'm going to explain to him why the drills are important for him and for the team.
And for a man that team together for the, everyone to reach the potential. So those were
those are good too. And I guess overall, broadly, when I'd be doing this whole time,
is talking to the person, talking to the individual, trying to figure out what his reasons were
for not when it participated in the drills. And then countering those reasons with logical answers.
And you know, saying, Hey, here's why it's important in explaining it to him. And then eventually,
you're going to get to a point where my coaching, my explaining, my maneuvering, my mental
jiu-jitsu, none of its work. And he still telling me, I'm not running the drills. I don't need to.
Cool. Bench. Next question. You know what I mean? Well, you play ball. What do you think?
Yeah. I didn't play football. Yeah, no. That's exactly right. I would think, and I'm trying to
put myself in the mindset back when I was in high school. I remember going into my senior year.
So you have, we had some kind of summer training. So it was really like high school summer training.
Chinese. No, no, no, that was for fall. Okay. And I was like a camp situation, but no,
summer training, which was like after spring and stuff. And what they call it, they call it technique
sessions. And all it was was like, you know, I played a, uh, in high school was kind of like a slap
back, which is a hybrid running back. Why do you see her type? And so the technique sessions were just
kind of passing drills and, you know, just hand stuff. And maybe even some footwork. But it's
it was kind of fun. It was just, you know, the quarterback was there and the receivers and the
running back. And catch passes, run her out and stuff. And you know, for like, I don't know, 45 minutes
hour. And so I remember going into my senior year and they're talking about, yeah, technique sessions
this year, whatever, whatever. And I remember I was just talking to Jade, my brother. And I was like,
yeah, technique sessions. Because it's a kind of where if you don't go, you don't get in big
trouble or nothing. It's just strongly encouraged. You know, I'm kind of like, yeah, I'm not going to
those kind of, because I was real. I, I had done well as a junior and I knew that now as a senior,
I'm really going to do well or whatever, that's, that was my little thought, right? I don't need to go
to those. So I was like, yeah, I'm not going into those with this kind of tone that like,
that's for people who were trying to try and get better. Me, I'm already dope kind of thing, you know,
and Jago's, he goes, oh, yeah, like super sarcastic, like almost offended. He's like, oh, yeah,
because you don't need that, huh? And then he said, yeah, because you're just so much better than ever,
and I think he said both of those. And I was like, you're right, I'll grow. It hit me really hard.
I was like, dang, that's, he's right. Even if, even if, like, even if I really believe, which,
it's dumb to believe that I won't benefit from that training, even if it's like, I'm just like,
I'm better than you. My whole team, by the way, the team sport, we all work together to win this
stuff. You guys, I'm better than all you guys. Yeah, that's the, that's the feeling I hit me real hard.
I was like, I didn't miss any of them. No, I'm not committed to it. So there was that.
So in that, in that mindset, right, going in, because that's probably what it is. Yeah, it might be just that.
And it makes sense. Like, we're in your mind if you don't get it brought to your attention. Like,
that's really what it is. I don't need to do these drills. I'm scoring touchdowns every single game.
Why am I doing these drills that all these non-s touchdown scoring people are doing, you know?
Just put me in one at a time to score touchdown, kind of an attitude, you know, that's probably what it is.
Or making tackles or whatever the position is. I don't know. So just like how you said,
make him kind of in charge of it. Kind of like, this guy, I don't know, this is Jim. I don't know.
Jim, you know, take these guys and show them how it's done kind of thing in practice. Because it practices.
Yeah, I imagine, imagine if you said, I'm not going to go this in the coach came up and he said,
Hey, echo, you missed you practices. And you're like, yeah, you know, and he's like, hey, man,
I need you to set the example and really show these guys how it's done and you're not showing up.
Yeah. Even and me, me back in those days, if you would have left out the, like, you didn't show up
part, leave that part out. That would have compelled me way more. Like, if you're like, you,
man, you're over here as a junior, killing it. And now it's about to be your senior. You're
you, you should guys, how it's done. I'm like, oh, yeah, well, you know, because it's like feeding the
thing. You're kind of thing. And boom, oh, yeah, big time she take charge in, um,
pop Warner football, which is, you know, younger guys in, I played for the color Rams.
Yeah, it sounded ruthless. They are still out by the way. Um, and so my coach's name is Coach Skouval.
And he had this kind of, it's kind of like a policy kind of the thing where when you do jumping
jacks and you do, um, you know, drills like, um, they come grasp drills. This is just like,
oh, you do this stuff. You roll, you do this things. And while you do this, in practice,
and even before the game, when you're warming up, you yell as loud as you can. That's it. You yell,
little kids just yelling, getting that spot for his reasons. And it worked, man, we were good. And,
so what I would do is I would try to be the, like, yell as loud as I possibly can to be the loudest guy.
During the entire, whatever you're doing, you're just yelling the entire time. The drills. Yeah,
when it's your turn, not, not if you're standing, you know, stand up and line. Got it. And then the front
three guys go. Yeah. So the coach stands in front of three guys, three lines. And the guys in the front
are doing the drills. So he holds the ball and you go, ah, and you just basically shuffle your feet
and he goes like that, then you turn, then you come back and he goes this way, turn, and then he goes
down, then you basically sprawl. You know, boom, stand back up and ah, you know, and then you go,
okay, like that. And then the three guys run now, it's the next guys. Got it. You're seeing the same.
So, and when you're running, you got a yell too. So, that's when you're good,
cardiovascular work. Yeah, to be yelling, because you can't breathe as much. What it does is
gets you in the habit of just going hard, hard, every play. You know, and when you're done,
you don't have to yell. You're cruising your esteem. Getting right. And when when it's go time,
it's go time and habitually that's how it was, man. It really worked. And so anyway, when I would yell
is that, and the coach would do this to a lot of kids. When you yell super loud, you know, you
can just see here that guy yelling above everybody. He would give that guy attention. But look at
this guy. He's getting a notch. Yeah, look at this. Look at this guy. And now the next guy,
he's going to try to out yell that guy. Go harder, go harder. So, it's that same idea. You know,
you give that guy props for working hard or showing everybody how it's done kind of thing. And it's
like, man, he's going to keep that shit up. And everyone's going to want it. In fact, Jeff did me
like that this week in training. So, I go in and just like, okay, after training, it's like,
everybody, you know, Jeff's a good guy. Good. Very, yeah. He, you know, you do some pushups or what
he'll make you do some pushups or whatever. And he's like, okay, do the triangle drill. You know,
when you're on your back, you rock back, you do a triangle. You rock back again, go try to go the
other side. So, all levels are in there. Begin as as well. And I'm doing it. And it goes, oh,
everybody in the middle of you go, stop. Watch out. Echo does it. And I'm like, if I didn't see what
was going on here, I would feel really empowered to just like show everyone how. And, you know,
so he successfully pulled that off as far as the feeling in my head to a grown adult that knows
because you were you doing them. Yeah, I was doing it with everybody. When he paused the whole
class and said, watch how he does it. You know, so it's an exact same concept. You stepped up your game a
little bit. Yeah, you don't take on like technique, show everybody. Yeah, no, it's good man. That
works then. Like, and the point there is even if you know that that's what they're doing to you.
It's still kind of works. Yeah. Hey, if you were the type of coach that had already had this
happened before and like you just benched guy in the coach had the reputation that you don't play
around. This would have happened in the first place. Really would it. I agree. I feel so. So you, you
may have to set the example at some point. Yeah, the only drawback of that potentially is,
you could, because in high school, a lot of the times like you can have one or two guys on the
team, sometimes even one guy on the team that will dictate the outcome of the game. Where if this
guy's playing, you'll probably win. If he's not, you'll probably lose and you have those dynamics
in high school. So if you run that risk where, I mean, unless you, if you're looking at a bigger picture,
like, well, I guess this is a bad example. If the guy, if you, if you as a coach, run things in a
certain way, where you, where you don't allow any slack, yeah, then the probability of this occurring
is going to be less. Yeah. It can be done for sure. Well, like, you know, it's a funny story.
Lave tells sometimes is we were doing desert training in long story short. There's an opportunity
to have guys take a break and go to town and have some beer and get a good meal before the
field training exercises start. And that's normal. What everyone does. But we didn't do that.
We didn't take a break, didn't go get food, didn't go get beers, nothing. We just got after
more. And I didn't really think much of it. But Lave was like, yeah, of course we wanted to go
but no one would know what I wanted to ask you. Yeah. Because it was just like, yeah, no slack. We're
not, obviously, we're not, we're out here to train and get something, we're out here to, you know,
go into town and drink a beer. No. And it's kind of funny looking back. But I think that that
you can establish yourself as a type of leader that's just not going to allow, like, what
do you talk about? You don't want to do the drills? Oh, but it starts with the little things. Like,
who knows what this kid, you know, maybe he didn't want to put on his practice jersey. You
want to wear this. You know what I mean? Just like little things, little things build up and eventually
he's seen just like a normal kid, just like a five year old that pushes the envelope with everything.
Oh, yeah. Oh, Mary, can't get away. Oh, what can I get away? Can't get away.
Where that? What can I get away with? People like to push the envelope.
Oh, my life. No slack. No. Yeah. But you can go too far with no slack. Of course. Yeah. And you now,
everyone hates US code. Yeah. Because you just don't understand. You don't listen and you're a jerk.
Yeah. You've, you've gone too far in one direction or you've gone too far in the other direction.
Balance, like, out of my leadership. Get some. Yeah. That's true.
Next question. Dockle, have you ever had a person you couldn't get through to?
Some that you couldn't manipulate. Then what? What do you do when you can't get through?
Well, yeah. Of course, I've had people that I could not get through to. And generally speaking,
these people are like level 12 arrogance. That's what they are giant ego. That's what causes this.
There was quite a few seal leaders that I dealt with. I shouldn't say quite a few. There was several
seal leaders that I dealt with that. We're like that in a several business leaders that I've
dealt with that. I would like that in podcast number five. I read that
counseling letter, corrective measures to a guy that was really arrogant. And despite that letter,
he did not change and he got fired. So what do you do when you got someone that you can't get through
to? You, you fire them. That's, if they're, if, and here's what you've got to do is what makes
that tricky is that some people and this may, this, this, this, make people freak out.
There's some people that there's such good performers that even though they're slightly negative
on maybe their team participation, but they're so good that that it offsets their negativity.
Right? And that happens. And happens. You know what happens with sales people? Sales people are
are in order to be in a sales position. You got to be confident. You got to be aggressive. You got to be
someone arrogant, right? You got to believe in yourself. And so some sales people take that to the
extreme where they're just like, I don't need to listen to what you're telling me the new procedures are.
Yeah. Screw that. I'm the one that's doing the big dollars over here. How much I fall?
Am I procedures, boys? Right? So, so that happens. Yeah. Well, then what you got to do is you got to
look, does, does, is this guy producing so, now that can create problems within the team.
And you have to balance those things. Is this guy, is the negative idea is creating
offset by the awesome productivity that he's doing. And furthermore, if the guys that good,
hey, maybe we should be modeling some things after them. I know problem with that. If you're the best
performer, cool, I want to imitate you. I want to get my people to imitate you. So, that happens.
The other place where you might see it, a similar situation, is a leader that does really good
with their relationships down the chain of command. For instance, but really has bad relations up
the chain of command. So, again, you've got to ask yourself, okay, if I fire this leader,
how many of these people that he has great relationships are now going to leave and what kind of
detriment does that to the team? That can also happen with someone that doesn't that treats
their people like crap, but up the chain of command, everyone thinks he's great. And he's getting
the mission done, by the way. He's a slave driver and he's creating total animosity between
him and his team, but he's accomplishing the mission. So now what do you do? There's a risk. Everyone
could quit. There's a risk you could fire him and now you don't accomplish the mission anymore.
This is why leadership is hard and this is why you have to balance everything. You have to balance
those things. But, talked about it a bunch of times. If you get someone, you coach him, you mentor
him, you do everything you can, you flank him, you do your jits through mental jits and want them.
You try and get them squared away and eventually if you can't, you weigh against how it's going
to affect the situation and then in many cases you got to let him go. And we fired, you know, we fired
five. So plenty of seals get fired from leadership positions. And same thing with, you know,
obviously we work with consulting businesses. We see all kinds of people getting fired because they're
either not capable of doing their job, they're too arrogant and they don't recognize the things
you're going sideways and they're just thinking that they're doing everything perfect. No, that's
not going to work out well for you. Yeah, what did I think is a life? He said, someone asked him,
you know, when do you know, when's that line where it's like when it's time to fire someone?
Yep. And he was like, you know, in that shell, there's a lot to it, but in a nutshell,
that was dope. He said, it's, you know you're at that point where you fire someone when
when you don't feel bad about it. Right. So it's like, yeah, you tried everything and
there's also people who are some validity to this that say the first time you think you should
fire someone you should fire them. That's the other end of the spectrum, right? And what that
means is when you're looking at someone and you're going, man, okay, I can save them, I can help
that. That's the kind of advice you give to someone. That's that's got a maternal instinct,
right, that you need to say, hey, I know this guy's just a good guy and everyone on my team is great
and everyone's going to do great job. You can't tell that person what, Lafin, I normally tell people
which is when you feel good about it, you should fire him because that person will never feel
good about fire anybody just to. Okay, I do this guy, I know he's going to pick it. He's
always going to come around. You know, and then they start playing the extreme ownership game,
which is, you know, if I would have given Eko a better direction, he would have been able to do this.
It's my fault. I've had given Eko 17 iterations of this and he still didn't complete it correctly.
He's fired. That's the way it works, right? There's balance. So that spectrum of
being within the confines of being justified, firing somebody, a certain type of person, you
got to say when you don't feel bad about it. Right. Right. That's like a fire heavy type dood.
Right. But there's also someone. The reason you shouldn't feel bad about it is because I've done
everything I can do to help you, which takes work, it takes effort, it takes tact, it takes hard
conversations because it's hard for me to go and say, Eko, you know, I've been looking at your
videos lately and they're, they're not really what we're looking for. Right. I don't want to say that to you.
You know, I'm comfortable with kind of like, you know, we want to get along. So instead I'm like,
Eko, that video is good, man. Yeah, it's good. But I'm not telling you the truth. And then over time,
our videos are looking good enough and eventually I say, you know what, you know, we're no
one's buying our videos anymore and we haven't gotten any new contracts. So guess what,
I'm going to have to let you go. And you're like, what are we going to tell about? What are you talking about?
You said all the videos that made for good? Now you're firing me. Maybe you need to be become a
better salesperson. Right. Yeah. Yeah. Whereas if I had the hard conversation early and said,
hey, Eko, you know, I know you're creative and I appreciate that. But we also need to get the message across
for our clients. I'm obviously fabricating a business where we're making videos videos for clients.
Yeah. Which I know we don't really do a lot of anymore. Occasionally you do it.
Oh, I can't do it. But yeah, you got to, you got to have the hard conversations earlier.
If I'm the type of person that doesn't like to have the hard conversations, once again,
I never feel good about it because I never, I never gave you an advice. So it always feels bad
for me to fire someone. Yeah. But if you're following good leadership tactics, then absolutely true.
When you get to a point where you got to fire somebody, you won't feel bad about it. Because you
know you've done everything you can. You know you've coach them, mentor them. And you know that
if you keep them on board, you are negatively impacting your team. Which is bad.
Yeah. And then go down to the other side of the spectrum. Still within the confines of being justified
in firing somebody by the way. But on the other side of the spectrum, you get how you say that
what you call the maternal instinct type. Maternal instinct. The person who can like, they're,
they're just super hard on themselves maybe or they're, you know, like, I, even if you did do
everything you can, you're still like, I could have done more. You know, so it's my fault not
it's I feel like I let them down as a leader. Yeah. You gave them 17 counseling chats. Yeah.
You know, they don't belong here. They can't do their job. Stop. Yeah. I mean, while they're going home
laughing at you or whatever. Yeah. You get that kind of person. So it's kind of like, how you say,
you got a balance. You got to be like, okay, you got to recognize, okay, what kind of person am I,
you know, or what kind of person is this other person kind of thing. And if they're those maternal
instinctual for lack of better way of putting a person, then what was it the first time you feel like you
should fire a mission fire. You hang out on that side of the spectrum. You got it. Yeah.
I switched. How do you regain respect from your employees after you've come across as
too nice? My husband and I are business owners with 45 employees in a small software
firm since adding more employees in the last 18 months, the culture is changing. I blame
our easy going attitude. Increasingly, there is an attitude problem where negative pushback has
become almost a daily occurrence. How do we lead our way out of this? Okay. Well, this is a rough one.
Not by no means I shouldn't have been said it's a rough one. It's a challenge, right? You have
to hit the reset button for sure. And you got to let people know that things are changing. Now,
I would straight up have a meeting that you you sit everyone down and say, hey, here's what's
happening. We are growing and as we grow, we are going to have to evolve just like a person.
As you get older, you have to evolve. You have to become more mature. And here's some of the things
that we're going to have to tighten up. Right? Is instead of, you know, everyone's just, hey, if you
come in and you want to go, you got to, you know, it's your kids birthday. Oh, yeah, no problem,
they have. You say, look, that's not happening anymore. We will do our best to let you out for
your daughter's birthday. We will do our best to let you go take care of family members when they're
sick. We will do our best to give you bonuses that you've become accustomed to. We will do our best
to give you raises annually. We will do our best to continue to take care of you, but none of those
things are guaranteed at all. We are trying to be profitable. In fact, we have to be profitable
in order to continue as a business. On top of being profitable, in order to grow, we have to
reinvest in the company. We have to take the money that we make and we have to put it back into this
company in order to grow. And we are going to grow that is our goal. In order to grow, we are going
to have to put procedures and standards in place. Now that will allow us to maintain some control
and efficiency as we grow. If we don't do that, we're going to fall apart. So that is what we need
to do. Now, why do we want to grow? The reason we want to grow is because we want to be bigger.
We want to create more opportunity for everyone sitting in this room. We're not trying to grow
for us. We're trying to grow for everyone. The more opportunity everyone has to advance and
leadership to make more money, that is what we are trying to do. But we can only do that if we
as we grow, we evolve and become better and become more efficient and become more standardized
in the next 18 to 24 months. That is what we have to do as a company. So I would have a meeting
and say something like that. Something along those lines laid down the wall a little bit. Now,
also then you have to change your attitude. You have to somewhat change your attitude. Because
you are Mr. Nice guy. That's how you ended up in this position. You know, the husband and wife team
Mr. Mr. and Mrs. Nice guy. And you can and should be nice as a leader. I understand that.
But at this point, the team needs to get tightened up. And so you're going to have to impose some
discipline on them in order for there to be freedom in the future. Surprisingly, but we know that.
Now, I had a friend who was a platoon commander. And he was he worked with me and I knew him.
And when he was a platoon commander, he was a real nice guy. Super nice guy. When he was a platoon commander,
he was a nice guy. Super nice guy. Things didn't work out good for him. Because I don't know
that I don't specifically know what happened. But I know that things didn't go great.
And when he talked to me about it, because the thing is when I work with him, we were all
bros. And I was a young and lister guy. But we know we were all bros. But we all had that level of respect.
Hey, you know what? We can go out and have a beer tonight. But tomorrow morning, we get to work.
I'm in the game. And I'm, you know, I'm, I'm, I'm, I'm telling the line. And that's pretty much what
we were all like. All of us and Mr. Guys working with this guy. And when he got to this new place,
new command, all of a sudden, it wasn't like that anymore. And he was growing out with people.
And when he get back into work, they, they wanted to grow out at work. And it was like, well,
we don't need to listen to you. We were at beers of the last night. And that's what he told me. He said,
you know, I, I was too nice of a guy. And I didn't get the respect that I needed to be able to
effectively run the platoon. And it was not good. And he said something to me too, which I,
I guess I instinctively knew or maybe I didn't, but it stuck with me. You know, it's real easy
to give more slack to someone when you have them on a tight leash. Right? It's real easy.
Yeah. Yeah. It's hard to do the other thing. It's hard to, well, listen to this. When I have
you on a tight leash, and I give you a little slack, you're happy. You're like, oh, look at
Jokko, he, he trusts me. He's let me go a little bit. When I give you all kinds of,
all kinds of slack, and all of a sudden I have to tighten up. I start pulling on the leash. We're
guess what? It chokes your neck. It chokes you. And I start bringing them. And the further I got to pull
you back on, in, the longer you're choking for. And so by the time you get back to me, you're
ready to bite. And so that's what you have to do. You don't walk in and put the dogs out and let them run
wild to the end of the leash and let them run whatever they want. And then try and pull them back in.
Because when you let them go, by the way, you're thinking yourself, well, you know, this is a good dog.
So when I let them run around, he's not going to do anything wrong. He's going to be a perfect
same. When there's a chance that's going to happen. And there's a chance that's a good dog and
you let them run around. And when you say come back, he comes back to you. There's also a chance that
he's not a good dog. And when he gets out there, he starts running and start biting people or running
and then road or doing whatever that dog's do. And so what do you know if you do that dog,
because you got to pull them back to you? And it's actually worse because we already know this is a
bad dog. So when you pull them back, he's pissed and he's going to bite you. Whereas a good dog
wasn't doing anything bad in the first place. And when you pull them back, any looks that you
can go, hey, I must have gone too out of control. I'm sorry. I'm back in line now. You see what I'm
saying? There's a the way the whole thing unfolds is bad because the bad dog, he's a bad dog.
And he's doing bad stuff when you give him slack on the leash. And when you pull them back, he's going to
snap at you. The good dog, you give him all kinds of room on leash. He's not doing anything good. And when
you pull them back, he goes, oh, sorry. I didn't realize I was doing something out of line. Master.
I'll keep it in check now. And you can give me more slack if you want or not, doesn't matter.
I want to, I want you to trust me. Meanwhile, the bad dog, he's just like growling. He's pissed.
So that's going to be a hard one. Not like I said, it's not impossible. But the big thing you
got to do, I think in this situation, you got to be clear. Here's what's going on. You could even
potentially, I don't know how well you are of a speaker interacting with people. You could even say
something along the lines of, you know, hey, look, we've been running this real loose.
And I've been real, you know, we've been doing everything we could to run this as loose as possible.
But we got to tighten it up. I think that's, I think you could say that because you don't want to say,
look, I've been being nice and I can't be nice anymore. That comes across wrong. But let's say,
look, we've been running it real loose here. And we've been trying to give you guys as much freedom as we can.
And we still want you guys to have freedom. But we got to put some parameters in place that are
going to, that are going to allow us to run this business efficiently as we grow and as we scale.
You can quote me on that one by the way.
Yeah, make sense when you say, be clear and consistent. You know, like,
some people, they'll implement rules and I'm speaking from an employee standpoint where I'm looking
at the boss when they're trying to play new rules to tighten it up. So to speak, because then the
night club industry that tends to happen, you know, managers are growing out with, I like to turn
and grow out by the way. Do you never heard that? Have you never heard that? I don't think so. Not that I can't remember. But it's interesting. I thought that was pretty common vernacular, especially amongst a bro like yourself.
Bro, bro and I, the, um, yeah, and the night club managers tend to grow out with people or, you know,
grow out with girls or whatever the wages, whatever, whatever. I don't know if you can grow out with girls. Yeah,
I don't know if that's a kind of talk. So it's a really, really, really different word for it. Yeah,
we're, group awards, whatever, um, but nonetheless, that tends to happen. So, you know, some sense,
same situation, you know, you get night club industry disarray as a business, you know,
thin they got to tighten it up and apply more rules and now you got to, you know, whatever with the
clock ins, it's like just little rules that. Yeah. And I do negative attitude. Now all these rules,
the damn rules, yeah, I'm a late person. They're the whole clock in thing. It's anyway,
you long story, but, um, so I'm going to get a tie. Echoes. So, one, the manager would implement the
rules, but they don't follow the rules, you know, it's, man, they just won't take. And people
get more mad, but when you see there is his, and he died to, unfortunately, Joel, he was, um,
he was, he was our boss for, for a while. And he, uh, he had to kind of do that, like implement the rules.
But this was, uh, he would grow out with you, but like, it was weird. He did this weird kind of balance
where he would break some rules, but then he'd follow rules, but the rules that he broke, he wouldn't
care if you broke them. Kind of thing. These are all small teeny tiny rules, by the way. Um,
but he was a real consistent person, you know, where if you wanted something done, we were all doing it,
including him, you know, and I remember thinking, man, this, I really like this guy in that way as well,
where he's telling us to do stuff, but he won't, like, because there's other managers,
all man, I can go into it, man, where there's other managers and they were straight up, like,
I'm the manager here. It's just, you know, it's just, you know, it's a weird dynamic in nightclubs.
Anyway, and they wouldn't follow the rules at all, you know, but you had to, because you're the
employee, you know, kind of thing. But yeah, when you're a manager, and again, from,
employee standpoint, and I see my boss following the new rules, consistently, it's so much easier to
sign on. It's kind of like, okay, that's what we're doing. I dig it. And yeah, if you combine it with
like what you said being clear, oh, I'm down. I'm down for the change. I get it, man. I get it.
Yeah, next question.
Joko, no bad teams, only bad leaders, and always the same relationship with each boss.
Yes, you also staged a mutiny. How do you reconcile that? Okay, so what are you talking about? Obviously,
no bad teams, no bad leaders is from extreme ownership. And it's actually from before that,
Napoleon said the same thing. Hackworth said the same thing. We changed the words a little bit.
So that's, and then the other thing you talked about is that I always say I have the same relationship
with every boss. I've ever had whether they were stupid or smart or whether they were aggressive or
passive, whether they were big ego or humble. I always had the same relationship with all of them.
That is, they trust me and they gave me what I need to do to do my job. So
how do I reconcile? Then then he started about the stage to mutiny because we had a kind of a mutiny
in one of my platoons, parking a turn when I was a young and listed guy. And so how can you do that,
right? If I had all these great relationships with all my bosses, and but what about I stage
immunity? Interesting. I actually had a decent relationship with the guy that I staged.
I'm mutiny with now that I think about it. So to go back to the earlier question,
well, I'll talk about being a renegade and you know, being a rebel. And like I said,
you have to rebel when it is necessary. So, and also for the mutiny that is in question,
I need to make it clear here. I didn't stage the mutiny. It wasn't me. It was kind of a group effort
that was somewhat led by the leadership of the enlisted leadership of our platoon. And it was a
movement that I certainly supported and was on board with. And we were kind of the E5 Mafia in that platoon.
Yeah. So we were kind of had the voice of the people, right? Me and a certain group of guys,
actually from my Buds class, who were all kind of, yeah, kind of just fired up about things.
And you know, I, it wasn't, the thing is it wasn't like the platoon commander had a couple
weaknesses, right? And maybe he wasn't the best at tactics or maybe it wasn't that, you know,
he wasn't the best shot or anything like wasn't the best athlete. No, he was a good athlete.
He tactically, he was like marginal. But what he didn't have, talk about the salt time,
what do you never even have any humility at all? And so he wasn't listening to anyone that was
giving him any input, including he had very experienced senior enlisted advisors. So the platoon
chief and the platoon alpio were awesome guys, very respected seals. One of them had been in the first
Gulf War on the ground getting after it as much as he could. So these guys were experienced
and the senior chief was a really, really smart guy. And this guy wasn't listening to.
And so you had somebody that in the situation was, it would have been bad for the platoon
to have this type of leader in there. And now think about this, if it's bad for the platoon,
that it's bad for your mission. If you don't have a good platoon, you can't execute your mission well.
And that's the bottom line to this question, that is how I reconcile this. How does this situation
affect the mission? Effect our ability to accomplish the mission? How does it do it?
If we have a bad leader and it makes us a bad platoon, then we're not going to be able to accomplish
our mission. And therefore, I need to help get rid of this person because my number one thing that I'm
trying to do is be good at my mission. And obviously a more unified team is going to accomplish
the mission more effectively and more efficiently period. So that is why it is so important for
people to understand the mission and the goal and the commanders intent because all of your decisions
are based on and guided by that understanding of understanding what the mission is.
And so you need to put the mission first all the time to make the right decision. Now as
soon as I say that, what pops in your head? Oh, Jocco, you care about the mission more than you care
about your men. Not true. Because think about this. If you are executing your mission effectively,
you are taking care of your men. That's in the business world and it's in the battlefield.
Because in the business world, if I'm executing my mission effectively, guess what we're doing.
We're making more money. We're being more profitable. We're gaining more clients. We're growing.
And therefore, I'm taking care of my employees because I'm keeping them employed and making
them more bonuses and making them more money and offering them more leadership opportunities.
In combat, same thing. If we are good and I execute my mission effectively, guess what?
We've mitigated risk in the best possible way. The more we mitigate risk, the more people are
alive, the less casualties we take. So if I'm doing everything geared towards the mission, then I am
taking care of my men because by the way, if I'm running a mission with heavy casualties,
what about my next mission? If you're my boss and you tell me to charge this machine gun
nest with my guys and I say, boss, we shouldn't do that right now. You carry out the mission.
Okay, who's going to do the next mission? Right? There's not unlimited guys here. So you can't do it.
You can't run a mission after you've taken heavy casualties just like you can't if you as a business
person, if you expend all of your capital on one project, well, guess what? You can't do the next project.
So good job. You accomplish the one mission, but you can't accomplish any more on the battlefield.
If you incur a bunch of casualties for one mission, you can't accomplish any more. So in both
those cases, the more effectively you handle the mission, not just the one mission, but your broad
mission, your strategic mission, the better you do that, the better you are taking care of your men,
and the better you're taking care of your people in the business world. So
and on top of that, on top of that, 99% of the time, your mission is aligned with the best thing
for your people. That's what I'm saying. 99% of the time, if we make more money as a company,
it helps all my people. If we accomplish missions in the most effective and efficient and take the
least casualties, that's the best thing for my people. So back to the question, how do I reconcile
these things? I look at how I can best accomplish the mission. And if it best accomplish the mission
to rebel against what's happening, there's some cases where I might, you might be my boss,
and I might not like you, but you've got a great relationship with the army commander and we're
working in their battle space. Would it make sense for me to throw a mutiny and get you fired?
No, it'd make no sense whatsoever. It's going to be better for our mission if I say echo sucks,
but I'm going to listen to him and we're going to massage this thing or we're going to make things
work because he has such a good relationship with the Army commander that he's making things happen.
So I might not do it. I might not stay to mute, not based on the fact that you, that you're
level of sucking, but based on the fact that what's more important to me is that we accomplish
our mission. And if you have a good relationship with the Army commander, I'm going to keep you around.
If you were in a business situation and you had you were not doing a good job and you're
one of my subordinates, you're not doing a good job, but you have this great relationships with all these
clients. And we're accomplishing our mission well because you've built these great relationships.
I'm just going to fire you because I think you're doing a fix. I think you're a crappy leader
of your men. No, actually, I'm not. What is best for the mission? Now I might have
third secondary and tertiary plans to move you into position where you don't have to handle
the operational things that you suck at. And I might put you in a position where you're just going
to become a business dev, a biz dev guy where you're out there meeting and greeting people because
that's what you're good at. I might make that happen. But I'm not just going to go echo is a bad
leader, fire him throw away the skill that you do have. And now we're not accomplishing our mission
because I ruined all the relationships because now you go to all these other partners that we
have and you're going to yeah, jockel fired me. He's pathetic. He doesn't realize what we're doing
here. I'm going over to this company. Come with me. Bring your business over here with me.
So you reconcile it by looking at the mission and the mission is almost always aligned with taking
care your people and taking care of your people in the sense of
imposing discipline or not imposing discipline. It is being disciplined and making them work
and giving them training them hard pushing them. That is generally what taking care of people is.
Taking care of people isn't hey, you know what echo. Oh, you know, don't worry about that video
that you're out of the client. I know you. I know what your daughter's birthday. You go ahead and go home
for the day. Am I taking care of you? If I do that, then I'm not taking care of you. No, I'm not.
I'm actually hurting you because now we got a bad reputation. We delivered the video late.
The company passes word to the next company. It says hey, you know, let's guys the video is okay,
but it doesn't matter because it was late. Now that's the reputation we have. Now fast forward six
months. We're downsizing. I don't need you anymore. I'm going to make the, I'm, you know,
I don't need four video makers. I only need one and you're not the one. You see what I'm saying?
So I'm not taking care of my people. If I focus on the mission, which is hey echo, I apologize.
I know what your daughter's birthday, but guess what? We owe this video. We got to get it done.
And you got to get in here and make it happen. Am I taking care of you then? Yes, I am. I know.
It doesn't feel that way. But yes, I am. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah.
Making sure they're equipped capable and
treated fairly. Yeah. Yeah. I said imposed discipline on them. Yeah. And like that doesn't work. Yeah.
But what you have to do is you have to impose this point. Yeah, make sure there's this
copy. There's this copy. There's this copy. Yeah. Because you don't want to say echo, you will
come in and make this video. I'm imposing this on your back echo. We all this video. We said we're
going to turn it in. Let me tell you the ramifications if we don't do this. Here's what's going to hurt.
It's going to hurt this, this, this, this, this, this, this, this, this. It's going to eventually
could end up with you not having a job and me not having a business. Yeah. Do you like the sounds of that?
No, you don't. No. You might be the wrong guy to ask about this. Maybe you're not, I don't know.
But what do you think? So you mentioned missing your daughter's birthday. I didn't miss my daughter's
birthday, by the way. Do you say you did or did not? Did not. But my son just had a first birthday.
I did miss that. But it's his first birthday. So I've always thought this is before I had any kids with
any birthdays that the first birthday that's for the parents. Some for the, you know, he doesn't
remember the first his first birthday. Never will. I'm definitely going to be the wrong person.
So missing birthdays is that like a bell curve like okay one first birthday, age one,
you can sort of miss that age zero. You can't really miss that. Meaning one, they're born.
Go go go talk to the military people. I know, I know. Yeah. No, you're right. And I'm saying
if you have the options and you know, we're speaking in terms of okay, if you're lost, that's
sure. I mean, you sort of have like in terms of, you know, we're at this company, you're my boss
on the video maker. Hey, echo, you know, we've got to get this video done. Whatever. I don't know. That may be
even in an extreme case. I'm saying in a general sense, which birthdays are more expendable. That's
ultimately the question. And it doesn't necessarily mean in this. Yeah. I'm going to tell you right now
as a guy that was in the military for 20 years. The birthday, if you're there, it's a luxury.
If you're there for Christmas, it's a luxury. If you're there for Thanksgiving, it's a luxury.
I missed all kinds of that stuff all over the place. Just like a big joke. You big, you know,
you're just not going to be there. Okay. So now we're not in the military. Uh-huh. No.
Just saying. And it's less about missing them. We're not missing them. Okay. So at the end of the day,
no matter what birthday, even right now, you're thinking, if you miss them, no huge deal. No, I mean,
and if I actually thought it was a huge deal, I would have to choose an entirely different lifestyle
and life. Right. Right. And I'll tell you what, my kids know. Yeah. Okay. They've always known.
Okay. Okay. So that's what someone's out there getting after. He's named, he's named my dad.
Yeah. No, no, no. Okay. He missed another birthday. Don't care. I get you yet. No, you're, I dig it.
And but that's kind of in a way. I mean, not to be too specific in splitters. But I'm going to do it anyway.
I mean, not even necessarily you, your specific situation. I wish you the most important
birthday. Exactly. Right. On the spectrum of value. Okay. Value, you can buy is
five through 11. Five through 11 are have the most weight most weight. Okay. So not zero. Now
what they're born. No. So if you, if you missed the birth of your child,
because you had to work and I'm not saying, military. I'm saying because you're trying to finish some report or something or whatever
or something. Yeah. You have to do that. Yeah. You're trying to be there. Okay. So but comparatively speaking, the, the birth of your child
compared to the fifth birthday, you say fifth birthday is more important because they don't remember anything from zero to four. Right.
That's just a big boom. Dang. That's a good point. And that's,
this is a big boom. I don't think that's the happening. Yeah. I don't know. Yeah. Like all those,
something that was parents that you take your kids and I did this to actually, I didn't, I did it with my first kids
by way of thinking, we're going to go to take the girls to Disneyland. Yeah. And that's it. Okay.
Walking around a Disneyland, which is pretty close to a living hell to be actually.
Standing in lines in the Anaheim summertime. Like just baking. And yeah, you know, here's the deal.
The girls are just so excited to hold time and so happy. Me? No. So now I haven't been to any of those things in a long time.
Actually, what we know, a business group and walked around where Disneyland and Disney World.
And I was like, you've got to go ahead and kill it now. But this is the thing, the kids don't remember.
You can show them pictures. And they go, oh, that's cool. You could stage those pictures. Like a leg landing.
Like, yeah, just set them up. And you like, oh, yeah, they're Cinderella, whatever. You seem to be four or five.
Yeah, five years. Okay. Actually, men, that's a good point because when I say now, I'm sure there's
developmental things happening when you do things, when you participate in activities with your kids. Obviously.
Yeah, but you do zero and five. Yeah. But you know, you could probably, it probably be more
developmentally helpful for you to spend a day with them, you know, coaching them and, yeah,
Gigiitsu or coaching them and boxing or coaching them and mojtai or coaching them and shooting or coaching
them in archery or coaching them and hunting small animals or coaching them and how to do combat trauma care.
And just like general face for your, yeah, you're right. Yeah. Yeah. That's, that's a
post like, hey, you go to Disneyland. Look at, yeah, that's not the question is like the birthday thing.
So, so yeah, only because you mentioned because by 11, they don't care anymore.
By 11, they don't care. Okay. That's my first time. Well, my kids were like, oh, my birthday
don't care. Yeah. So, man, that's a good point. We have a rule. You get to picture where you go out for
dinner on your birthday night. And in the last like five birthdays, we haven't even been able to
pull out our success for me. Yeah. So obviously, it's gonna be what the group is used to, but as far as
the kid, if you miss in the birthday for, you know, for the kids, I was a kid, you know what I used to pick?
Because that used to be in my family too. We get to like pick dinner. You know, it's to pick, yeah,
chicken patties. Dang, chicken, oh, yeah, from where? Oh, just from the store. Just get some chicken
patties. I used to love those things. Dang, yeah, I remember in school, I went to Kaloa,
elementary school. I used to love the chicken patties there. Yeah, they're dope. The chicken patties.
How do you sound like chicken-micking? No, good, good, good. A big flat chicken-micking nugget. Yeah,
and I didn't even like, I didn't like steak until I was in the... because we didn't have a lot of
steak grown-up because steak is expensive. Yeah, you know what I mean? Yeah, especially that
really bad. Yeah, especially that rib eye. So we didn't have steak. We had chicken patties. Yeah,
taste good to me. Pretty dope. And sometimes, you know, what else you're
of course you want McDonald's when you're seven? Sure. Yeah, it wants goats get some fries in a
shamrock shaky. We tried, I told, because you know, I love the chocolate chip, right?
So I had told all my kids about the original mint chocolate chip milkshake was the shamrock shake.
It McDonald's broken the dirt. Yeah. Which they'd have around same patties day, which by the way,
isn't around my birthday, but it just made it came in my mind. Yeah. So, so when I was a kid,
we had shamrock shakes. Same patties day. They're mint shakes. And when I was a kid,
they were amazing. And I was so... And I hadn't had one in 30 years, maybe, maybe 40 years.
I hadn't had a shamrock shake. And I saw a little advertisement. I said, oh, kids,
guess what? These are like mint chocolate chip milkshakes, but there's no chocolate chip. So it's
just smooth mint ice cream milkshake. From McDonald's? Yep. And I sent my daughter out to
go get us all. Go get us all the shamrock shakes. Bronum home, they were disgusting. They were
nothing like what they used to be. So McDonald's, I gave you a shot. Sorry, but yeah.
I'm surprised you gave him a shot. I am too, but it's been 40 something years since I had a
shamrock shake. And I remember them. So I figured we'll go with it. Maybe they're disgusting.
Yeah, they're probably not even my kids like them. Not even my eight-year-old. Dang.
Who just, you know, is an eight-year-old that just looks at things and say,
that's ice cream? I don't want it. She didn't even like it. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
they were discussing me through them all the way. Dang. So don't waste your money.
Yeah, don't waste your money. Yeah, don't waste your money. Yeah, don't waste your money. I'm
McDonald's. That's my personal recommendation. Yeah, period. The shamrock shake or otherwise. Yeah, yeah.
Yeah, it's not helping you in any way. Did you know that they just, I mean, this is going to
sound obvious. Now that I'm saying it out loud, they add the green coloring to it. To the ice
cream. Yeah. Make it green. Well, yeah. Yeah. When you get brires, it's white. Yeah, I got
years in the chocolate. I mean, my wife and what her family goes to, uh, or the Oregon coast.
That's where the telemunk cheese factory is. Wait, cheese? Yeah, yeah, yeah, telemunk cheese.
The actual big factory. And you can go in little tourism and they give you ice cream. Like,
okay, I want that mint chip, of course. Mm-hmm. And they give you to me. And they handed to me.
I'm like, first time I see it, I'm like, hey, that's not mine. That's obviously just the regular chocolate.
It's really a chocolate chip. Yeah, don't over here. And I for real said that. I was like, oh, I ordered
the mint and it goes, oh, yeah, that's mint. And then it all kind of came to me like, oh, yeah, I'm pretty
dumb for if you get brires, brires is white. Yeah. Yeah. Which is the preferred brand to be quite honest with you.
No, is it okay? All right. Well, at least I'll show you that I'm trying. At least the ones that I'm
attracted. Yeah. So, so back to the birthday thing. If you miss the birthday your child,
technically you're right, technically for the question, because I'm talking about like how
upset or how much of the mint is not affected at all. It can't all really. But here's the thing.
It, like, as a cohesive family, that might be a thing. If you have the option, I'm saying, if you're
overseas, come on man, let's see. That's a legit, you know, but if you have the choice, so you
miss the birthday your child, that's more of like a family thing, like, okay, but that's not what
that's not the question. Because so is the first birthday, the first year birthday, that's kind of
it's for the adults. Yeah. It's for the second, third, fourth and fifth. Oh, not the fourth and my
strength. Maybe they're in the game a little bit. Yeah. Yeah, I think in the kitchen. What you do is
condition them that they don't expect anything good. Yeah, I guess, you know, yeah, life sucks, man.
Life sucks. Nothing special about your stupid birthday. Every little bunch of people born on that
that day. Bunch of people born tomorrow. Bunch of people born yesterday. Get over yourself, kid.
Concure. Four years old. I know a bunch of people turn four.
Anyway, agree. I think that age two all the way to 21. That's my opinion. Those are ones that
if they want you there. You, you, you, I don't make that happen. You're not going to want you
around that or 21st birthday. She better. Yeah, they're one combo. She's not a lot in combo,
you know that. Check. We're doing more. Yeah. Joko, what do you think about when you don't
feel like getting out through it? You know, I put this out the other day and I think it's important.
All right. So Rome wasn't built in the day. We all know that. Everyone's here's that.
But Rome also didn't fall apart overnight either. It took hundreds of years for Rome to reach
its peak. But it also took time hundreds of years for Rome to decay and fall apart.
And that is representative of life because you don't achieve worthwhile goals quickly or easily
they take time. They take struggle. They take relentless pursuit day in and day out. That's what it takes.
But also things don't usually fall apart quickly either. At least at first it's a slow process
a little slip here, a little set back over there, a little wearing down of discipline and will over time.
That's the thing. Success and failure are generally slow processes.
Either slowly building things up or gradually tearing them down.
And that's why I say you've got to pay attention. You have to watch. You have to watch every single
second because those seconds they turn into minutes and minutes turn into hours and hours
turn into days and days turn into years. And so that second, that second, the just
went by, that counted and so did that second. And so did that one. And in those precious seconds
you were either building or you were decaying. You were either gaining ground or you were losing ground.
In that second, in every second, every second counts. So make every second count.
And I think that's all I've got for tonight. So echo if people want to make it count for this
podcast. Maybe you could tell them how they can go ahead and do that if they want to. Sure.
Be happy to actually talk about origin. Why do Pete choose origin as then he told the story.
Must be slacken on the listening on the moon. Nonetheless, make sense because
the origin of all these, all the gear is here in the US. It just happens to be. But that's a big
thing. The origin. So what do we make? Gees out of. So cotton. You know, we'll just take the cotton.
Grow the cotton in the US. What do they do with the cotton? Turn it into yarn. They do
yeah, stuff. Die it. Yeah. Turn it into a fabric. Yeah. Very swarms. Yeah. And they do all of that.
They don't import it from wherever. You know, some undisclosed American hair. Yeah.
You know, so maybe that's why it's called origin because the origin is a significant thing.
Anyway, all right. Cool. So origin. What is origin? Origin is the best gear in the world.
Straight up objectively. Not subjectively. Objectively. I got proof. Boom. So I got a key.
We went to this origin. Immersion camp for Gitu. Origin. Gitu. Immersion camp. No. Good.
Fun. By the way. That was your first time in the origin. Ge wasn't it? Yes. I think.
Can't track. Yeah. Yeah. I saw you with yours. It was cool. Yeah. So cool.
Camp got the G. Then I come home. Got two by the way. Actually, I got two Githop's.
One pair of pants. Come home. Maybe want to train more in the G by the way. I thought
enough it was the G or the camp were both probably both. Yeah. Anyway, so this whole week at
Trangy. And every single time I went in someone mentioned the G. And it's not like it's pink or
something like that when they're like, hey, he actually put on his G. Yeah. It's normal. You can get the
blue. I had the white one and everyone. It's like, oh, what's that Jeff Glover was one of them?
And this is a person who's like, you know, if he says it, it's something. It's not like some,
you know, fashion person. It's had like that logo or that's a cool, you know, anyway,
someone who knows. Anyway, everyone asking like, what up with his G. So I go into the
speel made here. I might have lost somebody because they took real long saying it, but nonetheless,
it's dope. And then another one was Jeff Higgs. We know who that is. Higgsie. Do you know who that is?
I just heard you. Yeah. Yeah. The person that Jocca talks about when he first started to get
introduced to G. Jitsu, the guy who reintroduced to G. Jitsu. Yeah. He and I got introduced to
Jitsu Jitsu together. Then he went out and trained hard. Yeah. I think it was the day he got his
purple belt. His purple house, the white belt. I mean, we trained with Master Chief Bailey
overseas that for like three months. And then we came back. We were in different cartoons, but
he started training for real with Fabio Santos. Yeah. And the day he got his purple belt. I'm
pretty sure was the day he got his purple belt. He came to my house and was like, let's go train.
Nice it out. Yeah. So think about purple belt versus the white belt. He's a nice lady.
And you know, triangle arm lock. Yeah. You know, everything. We're naked Jocca. And it's kind of
tall too. He's tall. Just strong. But beat down. Bony. Bony. Like in terms of when he's impacting
you with his elbows. Yeah. Real boony. He's hitting you. Yeah. He's got the bones cutting.
Yeah. He's like, I guess triangle feels like it's going to cut your head off.
Because he's bony. Yeah. Yeah. He knows some good judo too, huh? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. And he's got a real.
He's got a real um. He's always in touch with the whole idea of using this to effectively
defend yourself in a street scenario. Yeah. Always in touch with that. He always adds in a little
and if you're in the street, you could do this for idea. Yeah. He did that. I went up to studio 540. Yeah.
For Barry's. I had to train at 10 a.m. I had some stuff I had to do. And then they're only doing
nogy at the V. So studio 540. He exists teaching the class. Rob's apps. He's the only one. Whatever.
Even he mentioned the gig. He's like, what is this? Yeah. What's because it's a different material.
Especially not only specially made, especially woven, especially designed for jitter. Yeah. So yeah.
And I was like, oh yeah, that's that origin stuff. Don't worry about that. He's like, oh, he's like,
I think I might have one, you know, he's the kind of with like 1,000. Yeah. I think I have one of these or whatever.
I was like, you don't have this one pro. And I just kept walking. Anyway, then afterwards it was
afterward. So in Higgs was like, he's like, this is, I think he even said, this is the most interesting
gig and he's like, rubbing it in his fingers. You know, when he grabbed my sleeve, this is the most
interesting gig ever seen. Something like that, you know, went into my chest. That's the axiom.
G. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. With the gorilla weave. Yeah. Because they have a no a pera weave, which is like
little tiny pera. Yeah. American pearl. But the axiom that gorilla weave is, is, is, where's it?
The dragon weave. They both look very similar. Yeah. But they're both, we pull. Yeah. One of them looks like,
like, it's like, I'm not going to say velvet. I'm not going to do that. But it looks like that,
you know? No, it looks like diamonds. Which one was the one? Remember we were looking at them
and we were in there saying like, like, I was like, dang, this looks super luxurious. That's
not the one I have, by the way. It was like this other one. I don't know which one was which. But
nonetheless, people seem to like think, and the pants are dope. It has the, it's like, you can
choose drawstring, but it has the, like, you know, like surf shorts. Yeah. Where they have the
velcro boom and it's like fitted. They go in sizes like of your waist. It's not just like,
uh, which actually, I'm not against the whole A1, A2, A3, you know, I'm not against that. It's actually
it's fine. It's cool. Super simple. Um, but this is good. It's like when you get a you can order
your pants size. Um, boom. So, you know, when you play it on, it's going to be dope. Anyway,
and it is dope. And, you know, the public responded in that way as well. So, oh, also.
And Rashguards T-shirts. Yeah. We're going to make a bunch of other stuff. Yeah. Yeah. There's some cool stuff
on there. And the point is really sure. I'm talking about the GY because I was all up in that
G, this week. And let's fresh on my mind. And it's, you know, one of those things that sticks in there.
Also, at the camp, um, you know how like when you give your laundry, I only have one. Yeah. So you give
your laundry. You, you're out of G. You can't go to the next session. Unless you get another G, which is kind of
not, I wasn't really about that. But so I would use them twice in a row. And they dry surprisingly fast.
It's not even a surprise. They dry fast. They're not 100% cotton. They got polyester. I think in there,
with silver coated, they not not kidding. It's anti-microbial silver coating on it. Yeah. Not like
silver. You can see it. Yeah. But yeah, that's one. That's the same thing with mine. When I pulled
mine out, when I pulled mine out of the washing machine after the spin cycle, it's almost dry. Yeah.
Like a pair of shirts, sure. It's basically. Yeah. But dang it feels comfortable. It's nice. Yeah.
So yeah, man. Anyway, so yeah, or, or, you mean like the state main, not me, I am me, I am
eat. So origin main dot com. Go on there. There's a lot of cool stuff on there, man. A lot of it.
So yeah, check that one out. That's the best gear in America all made in America. Best gear in the world.
All made in America. Also, jocquests and supplements. So still on origin main dot com, right?
There's a part and I was, because I was looking for them. You go on the top and it's as labs.
Yeah. You click on there. Boom. That's where all the supplements. Super crill.
Because normal. You mean jocquests, super crill. You couldn't just do the crill oil. You couldn't. No.
No, no, no, no. Super crill. Yeah. Super crill. Like like it crill when you can get super crill.
One of those deals. Super crills got the capes on. Cool. There you go. And you know,
joint warfare, which is, you know, a blend of joint.
Supplement for fishing. Yeah. Yeah. Furbishing is for fishing a word.
You know, for fish for fishing, right? But the refurbishing is just doing it again, right?
Yeah. For fishing. Yeah. And that's got the things that I always say. Yeah. Of course, I mean
curcumin, um, conjurton and the conjurton is in the form of CQ Comber. Sweet. That's where it comes from.
Sweet. So yeah. Well, the, the, the interesting, not interesting. I guess you could call it layers.
Is this is exactly what you were taking for years? Yeah. And you were like, hey, guess what?
Origin in the house. Let's just make that. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Well, some of those have to combine different things before.
Yeah. But now I don't have to combine anything. Oh, they're already combined. Yeah. We're going to combine it into one.
Yeah. Well, deal. Yeah. Boom. It's warfare. Joint warfare against joint weakness. Yeah.
So good. I did it too. By the way, because now I got to get remember when I told the story like,
you know, when you wake up in my dog. Yes. You told the story. Yeah. I'm going to tell it again. So she's the
jump on my back when I get up. When you're right, when you wake up, that's your lease warm.
That's when you're trying to warm up and do physical stuff. The lease warm you'll ever be just in
everyday life is when you wake up. Yeah. Those first 12 burpees are hard when you do the
burpees. That moment. So this is the exact moment when my daughter, you know, 40 pounds are so
jumped on my back. My shoulders. My back or my shoulders, whatever she chose. And, you know, after I took
Creole for I think it was like five, six days. Boom. I could easily do. I didn't have to like
focus on my form. Nothing like that. Now I got two kids. And my daughter, whose older is heavier.
So not this morning. Yes, today morning. I go away, grow up for school or whatever. I already have my
son. He weighs out on all my two ways. But he's one. I have him. She's still wants to jump on my
shoulder. I have him because he's like, oh, and then he sees her jump on his leg too. So basically, I'm the,
what do you call it? The vehicle that they're writing on early in the morning, by the way.
Still no problem. Still going strong. So yeah, man. That's it. That's a joint warfare situation right there.
And Creole, super cruel. Get on it. You'll be glad you did also check out on it.com slash
Jocco. This is where I get my kettlebells. And I meant I mentioned this. I got the grill on 72 pounds.
So I'm cruising. Right. Not lifting cruising. And Jade comes. My brother comes and I was like,
I was like, yeah, I go check out this new kettlebells I got and goes, oh yeah, yeah, this builds
a cool. I was like, go ahead pick them up. He goes and pick that. It's like kind of heavy, you know.
But I've been doing kettlebells. I was like, now let me show you. Not even warmed up. Nothing.
Speaking of Creole oil. Yeah. It was actually really the Creole oil.
Fucking springing into action. Really. Boom. I do it. And, you know, had to show them what up.
Nonetheless, that was done with those kettlebells, which are dope, by the way.
I'm not going to say get the design at once. I'm not going to say that. I think you should.
But I'm not going to say to do that. I say go on there on it.
Duccomps slash jockel. Check it out. You like something get something. They got cool battle ropes
in any kind of exercise stuff. Like the new stuff functional training equipment.
Keep your work out interesting. If you care about your work out, it's being interesting. Unlike
jockel. Jockel doesn't care about that stuff. Don't get addicted to the interesting
information. Like I did. I think I'm past that addiction now. But, you know, you do run that risk.
On it. Duccomps slash jockel. That's a good one. Also, good way to support is when you're buying these
books at jockel reviews, we didn't review one today. But, you know, in the future, jockel might
and it has in the past. I, we organized these books by episode on jockelpodcast.com. On the top
click on books from podcast, boom, all in order to support the podcast. Click through there to get them.
Boom. It takes you to Amazon. Support the podcast that way. Also, if you're doing any other shopping.
Hey, feel free. If you're going to buy a new video camera in the event of your video camera
breaking on the plane. When you check your luggage and the video cameras in there, you want to get
another one. Boom. Get it through there. All good. Big, big support on that one. What? It seems like an
opportunity in time to talk about your other video camera. Sure. Oh, yeah. Yeah. Actually, it's a good story,
though. Yeah. It's not like a tragic story, which you kind of felt like when you mentioned it. I was like,
well, it brought me back. Okay. So, here's the story. We go to Maine, right? Technically,
we go to Boston. Then drive to Maine. Yeah. Right. So, you know, to dry, to dry, then you
we rent a car. Well, you know, the car rental place. And I have three bags. Well, you have what one,
two. Yeah, two bags. So five bags. My computer bag and my suitcase. Yeah. So five bags total. I have a
big bag with equipment in it. suitcase with, you know, uh, do you just stop and closing what not? And then
the third bag, which was a carry on, big, big, you know, most important. Most important has a, um,
it has an important camera in there that I use. My, my favorite camera I have ever had. Really good camera.
Has some value to it, we'll say. And it's a red camera. Yeah, it's red. Yeah, I picked W,
you technically red, FW. Yeah. It's, it's a awesome camera. Is it the best you can buy?
Is there one more? It depends on what you mean, but best, but it's, yeah, there's one sort of level.
Okay. Well, I'll put you this, an an cheap. No. It ain't cheap at all. In some places in the country,
you go buy a house for the cost of this camera. Yeah. So it's an expensive camera. Yeah. And
and you'd think like, okay, Echo's going to take really good care of this. Yeah, which I do. Really,
that's why I carry it on. Yeah. Boom, boom, boom. There isn't even trust anyone touching it.
He's going to carry it with him. Yeah. Okay. Continue. So boom, we get a rental car. We got a
parent league got five bags to account for. There was no, there's some kind of confusion.
You know what happens? Yes, there was. Yes, remember? Because remember when you're,
when you're getting in, what was like an expedition, something like that. And now those
new ones have that automatic tail door that goes up. Yeah. And you know what it was? I think
there's like a sensor under the bumper that if you like put your foot under there, it closes. Like,
if, you know, like a hands-free closing in the different situations. So the thing started closing on
the window. Yeah. And the girl, the rental girl was trying to save me. Yeah. And she couldn't.
Yeah. So he was too strong for it, which was kind of funny because I didn't even care.
But I just kind of like put my back into it and stop. But I was watching her kind of chuckling.
She's trying to stop it and it wasn't stopping. Yeah. She was looking and she had a look on her face.
Like, I was about to die. Yeah. She was trying to work. You know, like, Indian Jones, I was going to
get my head cut off by the door slamming shot. And I was just kind of like laughing at the whole
situation. Yeah. But that caused some confusion apparently. It was like your mind. It was like a
little micro emergency that happened. And so I was like boom flustered, but wait, what all the bags
are in or not. And we're trying to fit. Remember, because we were trying to get the seats down.
Yeah. There's like maybe three quasi major things going on. No, no. No.
Let's go on. And, you know, for the psych store, I'm just going to continue. So. We get it.
All all all all. I thought it was just everyone for us. We get it all loaded. And at one point,
like we're like halfway up. There's a three hour drive by the way, if we don't stop and we did stop.
So it was like five hours or something like that. So we stop and remember, hey,
stop. I got fried chicken by the way. It's good. It was really good. I love it. I was stoked.
Nonetheless, I had a thought and it was literally lasted three seconds. Like, I don't really remember
putting my camera bag in the car. But what am I to do? Not putting in the car? It's like the
most important bag. So whatever. So we just continue. We get up there. And right as we pull into,
like, park, like, five seconds before hours later, we're in the back country of Maine. Yeah.
Like, not even knowing. Yeah. First time there by the way, which I don't know what that even means.
But either way, we're there. And I'm all pumped up. Yeah. I could have noticed my rib. I was stoked
to go in and see everybody in hang out. Yeah. You can see everyone's inside the light of the gym.
Yeah. So they can't see that we're outside. Yeah. So I'm all but I'm stoked. So it's yeah, the beginning
of the deal. The adventure. If you will. And right as we kind of roll to a stop, I'm thinking, man,
did I? You know, you kind of count we're here. And now you start to count for it. And I don't
remember that stuff. So the first thing I do I look in the back seat, because that's where it would have
went. Not there. And I look in the back, not there. And you know, you get that cold feeling that just rushes
over your body. Oh my God. So like man. So whatever I tell you and you're like, oh, you know,
get on the phone, you know, call the airport in Braille. You ever tried to call the airport in the airport?
Yeah. I was. Yeah. Okay. I told you this afterwards. My opinion was at that point. I was like,
that thing's gone. 100%. 99. Gone. Yeah. 99.99. 99% you're never going to see that thing again.
I had already cut it away emotionally into cash from it. And I was kind of throwing you bones like,
yeah, call the airport. Maybe they can help you. That was actually nice of you. Like, because you
really, you seem like you cared not necessarily about the camera necessarily, but you cared about me.
You know, like, early. I thought that thing was gone. There's no chance you're getting it back
it over it. Yeah. And I was a little bit, what I said, you know, is there podcast recorded that you
don't have copies of on there? And you said, no, they're all uploaded. I was a good thing.
Yeah. Yeah. Because we're never going to see that thing again. Yeah. And I was thinking, I'll see it again
in three months, maybe when they finally recover it from Austin found from the Boston airport,
by the way. Or I get my insurance money for it down the line and they've got to go
go through the purchase process. We just think they've got Jack. And but we don't have it for this trip
for sure. And later on, I found out or realized that we have the podcast like SD cards in there. So
why don't we get guess we could just spot something anyway nonetheless. We get there. And I'm calling
the airport and right one the airport recording picks up. Yeah, just get this feeling like,
oh my gosh, I'm just completely going through the motions right now. No one's going to pick up
and be like, sure, I'll look for it. Yeah, I got it. No one, that's not going to happen.
But I keep calling. I'm like, I'm not going to be the guy who didn't do everything I can. So I'm calling
it whatever. Meanwhile, we got to go talk to Pete. We got to, you know, all this stuff. Actually,
you released me. You go, hey, man, go ahead. I'll make these calls. And I was like, okay, cool, you hang out.
Yeah. Just make this totally worthless effort because you're never seeing that thing again. I'll
go hang out with people. Yeah. So after a few minutes that I go in, I'm like, you know what, let me
whatever. Let me kind of cut it away as they say and let me at least embrace that, you know,
what we're doing. Go in and you kind of casually in a way mentioned like, hey, there's some
guys from the police department. If that came across casually, casually, I shouldn't have made it
come up because I met a bunch of guys, you know, everyone was saying hi and a couple of guys,
you know, yeah, we're cops and Riviera down in Massachusetts and, you know, right by Boston.
Yeah, right next to them. And I met them and then you strolled back in and you met a couple of people.
And then I said, you talked to anybody. Well, yeah, I talked to this and, you know, they're going to look
whatever. I'm thinking the out of things gone. And I said, you know, if there's anyone in the world that could
like make something happen right now, it's cops. Yeah, it's, it's, it's Boston cops, Riviera cops. And
what I'm not, and I just said, I said, bro, and I was a little, this is my ego. I was embarrassed for you.
I felt bad that you had to go and tell somebody that you lost this sick camera. And so I just said,
hey, man, those guys over there, their cops and if there's anyone that gets going to get this
thing back, it's them. Yeah. And I'm thinking, you know, the whole story where like,
did you see this, so did you not think that they were going to be able to help? I thought that they'd be like,
oh, you lost your bag. Like, everyone does every single day at that airport. Oh,
work cops, bro. We have crimes to solve. Yeah. No, I'm not going to get your stupid
attitude of that thing being gone actually changed. As soon as I connected this,
I said to myself, oh, they're cops. We're going to turn this over to them and they can make things happen.
Yeah, that's good. And even me, when I was like, okay, I'm going to mention it to these cops,
in these cops, you're going to be like, what do you think our job is, you know, to go recover
your lost luggage? Like, do three hours away, by the way? No, so I'm like, you know what,
Jockel said to do it, I'm just going to do it. This is another go through the motion thing.
So I kind of timidly go Dennis and Nate every there. They just rolled it whatever and I was like,
can I lost a bit? And they were like, like, what did it look like? Like they kind of were into it.
I was like, oh, this is promising. You know, like they actually care because I was thinking they'd be like,
man, that's a sad story. Bro, I'm going to go talk to Jockel again. You know, kind of thing. I thought that
was going to happen. And they were like, no, bro, they get on the phone. Yeah. And they're like,
what did it look like? Boom. One more question, like, well, where did you leave it? Okay,
boom, back on the phone, back on the phone, these two guys, I'm like, oh, this is it's starting to kind of
look up, and he's like, okay, so the hang of the phone is just a waiting game now, just a matter of time.
I got this, I got this guy, I'm like, for real. They're like, yeah, man, just waiting in. So we're talking.
They called, they called all the rows out there. And there's like a force of troops over there to get in there,
had that thing recovering. What? 20 minutes. So they hang up and they're like, just a matter of
time. And then we just start talking about other stuff. Yeah. You know, kind of teasing me a little bit,
whatever I deserve it, probably even 10 times that. But, and then we're talking about other stuff. Boom,
it's phone rings. He's on it. He's like, is it of the mind shift bag and all this, describe it? I don't
even know. That's all out of the, I'm like, yeah, I think so. Go inside and he's any, any bus
up my laptop or whatever. It's matching the description. And in my mind, I'm like, there's no way
he found it. Like, a cop's not going to just roll into the Logan airport and find my bag. No,
the only way that's going to happen. But sure enough, he's like, oh, yeah, frag,
muck. Because it has a frag mob sticker on my, oh, my laptop. He's like, fragmob was like,
that old cold feeling turned into just warm and love and rainbows on this guy. I was like,
that's the one. They're like, and, you know, they're kind of, they didn't actually high five,
but they're kind of like, almost like, you know, this is this little task. They kind of bonded
in just like that. 20 minutes, man. It, it, it, it, it, it, it, it, it, it, it, it, it, it, it, it, it, it,
and then one of which over. Robby. Yeah. That's his name, Robby. Yeah, I own him a role.
Actually, there was another guy, Kalahan, who was the guy who went and grabbed. So he was like a
coordinated deal man. Yeah. And man, that was like, one of the more heroic things that has happened to me
in the recent past. So got the camera back. Got the camera back. And the computer. Yeah.
And we're good. So in the event. So the point is in the event of you shopping for cameras,
can't get a red camera on Amazon, but if you want to get like a Sony HD handy camp, you know,
well, whatever you're using because it broke in the luggage. I'm not saying that happened to me.
I'm just saying if that ever happens, you want to get another one. Boom. You can go through their
jockels start.com. Click through. And thanks to everyone that got that camera back. Yeah,
much appreciated. And the laptop with all kinds of videos and important stuff on it. Yeah,
actually, there's guys around the laptop, but yeah, man. Denison Nate, the primary guys.
Mr. Callahan. I didn't meet him, but he's done with the guys you recovered that. And then
Robby, I owe you a role. Oh, you two rules. I owe you a lot, man. Yeah. He's one who delivered it.
So big up to all of them. Big time. So also back to support of jockel podcasts. Subscribe to the podcast.
iTunes, Stitch or Google Play. It's a good way to support kind of kind of, kind of obvious, like,
oh, yeah, you subscribed already, but some people and maybe they didn't. Maybe they're just kind of
maybe wish, not wish you watch, but you know, kind of still on the fence. But yeah, man, do it.
Blitz, you're gonna unsubscribe if we're not delivering value. I don't like to use that expression
adding value. Because when you do this, it thinks it's cool. I thought it was cool. Nonetheless,
if we're not adding value, you can not subscribe if you want. Also, subscribe on YouTube.
What's the recent development? Oh, your book. This book is a pretty,
feel manual. You'll manual, which you'll talk about later. Yeah, we put a video on there.
It kind of little summary. I was real excited to see that video come out. Yeah. And I was,
you know, we were texting back and forth. And you said, well, how about, you know, we,
well, I'll put it out tomorrow, but it's ready. And I said, just pull it out now. Yeah, yeah, yeah,
later. And then you said launching in three, two. And then it was, and I went to my YouTube or my phone.
And I was refreshing refreshing refreshing refreshing refreshing and I wanted to catch it. Like the first
person to catch it, I'm refreshing refreshing refreshing. And this happened. I got a ping for my mail
on my phone. And I switched to mail. And it said, jocco podcast is uploaded a new video. So that's
one of the benefits of subscribe to the YouTube channel. If something comes out, you can have it email you
if you want it to. If you can have it email you, when something new comes out. And otherwise,
there's no way you'd know. Yeah. So if you, if you care about that kind of stuff, um, which, you know,
this one of those deals where, yeah, sure, you get the video version of the podcast.
If you care what we look like, just fine. Actually, people play it on their TV, like, in their
little home gym or something like that, which, it's kind of like we're all there together, you know.
Yeah. Um, and then, yeah, some excerpts in there. The video that you made for the book. Yeah. I think it
might be your best video ever. It might be. I think it's up there, man. I was, yeah, I was talking.
It's real good. I was talking to somebody on Facebook and they were like, oh, hey, that video's cool.
And I thought about saying, oh, that was a good man. Thanks for that. But I thought about it.
I was like, wait, jocco kind of did all the work. Really, you know, you're the one working out.
You're words. You say in the words. I said, all I did was put some cool music in some words on there.
I, yeah, but you made all that other stuff happen in there. The words in the way it's all coordinated
together and all that stuff. So it's like something. None the last, you know what, to be honest, I like how it came
out to. Yeah. He's good. He's very, he can get by to the best one. Hey, man, you know, it depends on what you mean by
best, you know, I don't know. Impactful. And then back, well, sure, it's a good one. I liked it. Yeah,
it was, but if someone wasn't subscribed to the YouTube channel, they might not never know that that video exists.
That's true. And that that's that hurts. Or no Facebook or no Twitter or no nothing. Yeah.
Yeah. So choose your, your, well, I tweeted that one out, but I don't always tweet out when something comes out.
Yeah, that's true. You know, you don't always do that. Sure. So if you're subscribed, you'll know.
Really? That's what my actions are. That's true. And you know, choose whether or not you want to
alert. You know, sometimes you don't want that alert every single time, but sometimes you do, you know,
I'll put some deleted scenes on there as well. Anyway, nonetheless, yeah, YouTube channel. We have one
and it's cool. I think it's cool. Jockel thinks it's cool. I just got a little thing. YouTube kind of
changed their look on YouTube. I don't know if you noticed that. Well, it's hard for me to judge
because I have YouTube read now. No, no ads. So dope. Nonetheless, I like that. Ads. Actually,
they did a good thing with ads. Now, now you can click like I don't like this ad or you can give that.
So you can kind of narrow down the ads you see. I like the movie trailer ads, you know?
I don't like any ads. I didn't watch what I want to watch. Everyone else get away from me.
Yeah, I did it, then. I did it fully. Nonetheless, point there is subscribe. Subscribe to the YouTube
channel is a good way of supporting the podcast. If you want to. Also, Jockel is a store.
It's called Jockel Store. JockelStore.com. Of course,
very creative name. By the way, I guess technically I came up with the name. Yeah, you did.
Just store. Is your store Jockel Store? I concurred with the name. Yeah. So, what do we have on the
store? If you don't know already, we've got shirts on there. Rash guards, travel mugs, some bumper
stickers, patches, hats, bulk hat hats. Not like, did you bring mine today? Top hats. You don't look
like you did. Yeah, no, I didn't. I'm nervous. I'm sorry, but. You owe me nine.
Nonetheless, they're on there. JockelStore.com. I guess technically you could go to your own store
and get a hat or nine hats as it case means you. Okay, I'll do that today. Thank you.
Yeah, if you want, if you want to. So women's stuff on there, some hoodies. We want to get a
thicker hoodie. That's what we're doing right now. I know you said. Yeah, a bunch of times.
But yeah, we'll work on that. So there are boom hoodies. I think what's the next move? What's the next
thing? Winner hoodie. Winner hoodie? Yeah, I think it should be. I think I'm going to put a
warrior kid rash guard on there too for for warrior kids doing no Gigi Jitsu or even Gigi, you know,
you wear the rash guard on your Gigi sometimes. Yeah. Yeah. I think that we do. All cool stuff.
Nonetheless, JockelStore, that's where you get JockelStuff. It's pretty cool. So I'm not saying
to buy something. I'm saying go on there. Check it out. If you like something, get something.
Good way to support. Also psychological warfare. If you didn't know what that is, it is an album with
tracks. JockelTrucks. It's JockelStuff to you. So if you listen to it, it's not like a story.
Right? Like a lot, you know, a lot of times it's not music. Obviously, it's not JockelStore,
singing hard core, which you do from time to time. By the way, you're ever writing and here's
the kind of a rhetorical question. Okay, have you ever ridden not you Jockel, but the people out there. Have
you ever ridden with Jockel for five hours or three to five hours in a car? No, okay. Let me tell
you what it's like, part of what it's like. It's Jockel drumming even in the airplane, by the way,
drumming on what you call that, the handle in the door. Like you're doing like drums. Boom. And then
singing under his breath, hard core stuff. What else are you singing? Pretty good. It's like Tom Petty. It
wasn't Tom Petty. It was something. Anyway. I have no idea. Yeah. But it was songs. I was
I know as ever, occasionally I had a look at you and you'd be looking like, can you please stop?
Yeah, yeah. Which I got to kick out of me. Yeah, do a boy. Yeah, or stop the car and like get out
or something. Yeah, you get out and walk. Yeah, and play drums. That was the look for sure. Yeah. Wait,
no, you get out. Stop playing drums and get out. That was the look. Nonetheless, these tracks are not
that. They're him, him, Jockel, talking to you, telling you, pragmatic ways to get over your current
weakness, what weakness. Okay. So let's say you're trying to stick to a good diet. Right. Try to wake
up early or all of that stuff. Right. At this moment, actually. Yeah, currently. I guess technically,
I'm passing two because they ate a salad. Oh, just a hardcore workout to yesterday and today,
rolled last night 70% ribs of a little tweak still, but Andy, Dean, light rolls,
little bit with name. I think that was it. But yeah, no, last thing the whole time. Yeah. Yeah.
Dang. Yep. So technically, am I fasting if I ate a salad at like 11. 45 last night?
Well, yeah. I know, is it? I drank some coffee. Yeah. Fast enough, right? Fast 24 hour fast. No.
No. Oh, 12 hour fast. No. Yeah. I'm not fasting. No. I'm not. No. I'm not. I've never had a
quick move. Is there such thing as an eight hour fast? I think that's just life.
When is the, I mean, it's like, No, for. If you're not doing, if you're not doing at least 12 hours,
okay, 12 hours is the cut-off for killing it. If I don't know what the cut-off is using. I'm not a doctor.
Yeah, but you were even at your audition. Well, you're fasting right now, currently. Yeah. What if
like you just didn't eat yet.
Whatever.
Then I just didn't eat yet.
There's a difference.
Yeah.
So what's the difference?
That's the question.
I don't know.
Hey, your man of humility, you say,
you don't know when you don't know.
I like that.
Nonetheless, back to psychological warfare.
If you're trying to stand the fast or wake up early every morning,
you know, or stick to the diet, stay on the program,
whatever, in whatever way, ways that you have opportunities to slip.
This is an album with tracks that tell you why you shouldn't slip on your waking up early.
You're diet, you're working out my whole thing, you know, like I've said before.
If I don't feel like working out, I kind of tend to be like,
well, maybe I'll rest today.
Maybe I'll do it later.
You know, that whole thing.
Not good.
Yeah, this helps with that.
It'll just tell you like why it'll, how in a nutshell,
it tells you the benefits of not slipping and the repercussions of slipping.
That's in a pragmatic way.
But it's jocquatelling it to you, so it works.
100% of the time.
My experience.
Speaking of fasting.
People ask me this all the time when you're fasting.
Do you eat anything?
Yeah.
I do.
Actually.
Sunflower seeds.
Sunflower seeds?
Because it takes you like 37 minutes to have one little tiny seed
to get it chewed up.
So it's, but they're, but they're good because they keep you occupied
and you're chewing and they taste good and blah, blah, blah, blah.
Sometimes I'll grab a handful of nuts, mix nuts, just maybe one in the morning,
maybe one at night, yeah, one handful.
And jocquat, that's the, the things.
Now sometimes I won't eat the nuts, but I don't know.
I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I,
do you gotta be careful that you don't have 13 handfuls of nuts?
Yeah, because I'm like I'm just talking like a handful of nuts, right?
Um, but jocquat, I have that for sure.
And you know what, if you call me now or you want to put like, oh, you weren't really
fasting because you have jocquat, you have a handful of nuts.
I mean, if you think about the amount of calories that I burn on a daily basis,
a handful of nuts is basically insignificant.
But whatever, maybe I'm doing it wrong.
That's okay.
I'm just telling you what I'm doing.
I'm not telling you to do it.
I'm not telling you to copy what I'm doing.
Just telling you what I'm doing right now.
Don't imitate me.
Find a professional talk about fasting.
I'm just telling you what I'm doing.
Jocquat, let me tell you.
Tastes good.
Feels good.
And increases your deadlift about 12 fold.
Or so.
Yeah.
So that's real good for you.
You can get it on Amazon.
Also on Amazon, you can get some books, extreme ownership, combat leadership.
I appreciate everyone that gets it for themselves and then gets it for their teams and
sends pictures of 47 extreme ownership copies stacked up.
I got something else for you.
That's awesome.
Get it for your business associates.
People that you work with, but they're not in your company.
You get it for them and that's going to improve everything in your world too because then
they start taking ownership or problems and everything gets better.
So I've had a lot of people that have said, hey, I gave this to this person.
I gave this to this partner that I used to have and now he's got his own business,
but we're working together and I gave him the book and now we're working together even more.
So there's a good idea for you.
Way of the warrior kid.
This is awesome at the origin camp.
A bunch of people from all over the Northeast brought their kids up to meet and
out, get a signature and all that.
And what's cool.
This is what's cool.
Kids tell the truth.
You know what I mean?
They don't even, they're not aware of, they don't care about your feelings at all.
Yeah.
And it's awesome that you know, say, I always say to kiddo, did you read that book?
And they go, yes, how'd you like it?
And they all say, I love it.
It's awesome.
And we know your jacco.
And thank you for writing it.
And those kids are getting stronger and smarter and tougher and better.
So you want to help out kids that you know, get them this book right here.
This planet was freedom.
Field manual.
That's what it is.
Field manual for those of you that don't know what a field manual is and the military
a field manual is the instructions on how to do something in the field.
Whether it's attack a strong objective or whether it's dual reconnaissance or how to conduct
a patrol.
The field manual gives you the instructions on how to do that.
And that's what this is.
The discipline equals freedom.
Field manual is a field manual on how to implement discipline into your life.
There's zero amount of fluff in here.
There's zero.
There's nothing in there that you're going to say to yourself, well, I think jacco might
have just thrown this in here for, you know, kind of take up some space in the pages.
Didn't happen.
Rather not do it.
Rather burn the whole book.
Don't care about that.
Books not long enough.
Cool.
Read less.
So that's what it is.
Get it from your local bookstore.
So go down to the neighborhood bookstore and tell them you want this book or you can get it
from Barnes and Noble, you can get it from Amazon.
Let them know what's up.
It's in the get after it's section of your local bookstore.
If they have one, if they don't have that section, they need it so they can put this one
book by itself in there, getting after it.
Your video is awesome.
By the way, thanks, John.
For your business, if you need help aligning your leadership and improving the way that your
whole team leads together, check out our leadership and management consulting company.
It's called National Unfront, me, Lave Babin, JP to now, Dave Burke, you an email info at
shalomfront.com.
Finally, the muster September 14th and 15th, I'm pretty sure it's sold out by the time
this podcast comes out.
We've been able to squeeze a couple more people in it.
Each of these even when we're sold out, we got in like four more people, three more
people, seven more people.
Check, it might be completely sold out, but extreme ownership.com.
And if you want to, we're going to pretty soon get the dates for the 2018 musters going.
So start looking to that and get registered as early as you can.
And until the muster, if you happen to want to keep cruising with us, kind of hard, we
are on the interwebs on Twitter, on Instagram, and Thishipoha Echo is at Echo Charles and
I am at Jocca Willink and finally to the military members out there, sitting on some
forgotten barricade holding the line to protect us, thank you to the vets that stood on the
wall and did their time.
Thank you to the police law enforcement, firefighters, EMTs, other first responders.
Thank you for what you do day in and day out.
And to the rest of you with goals and dreams and aspiration, make sure you remember that
seconds turn into minutes, minutes turn into days and days turn into years.
So make those seconds count.
All of them.
And until next time, this is Echo and Jocco out.
Time to teach.